APP ID: 1802
NAME: syeda farzana ali shah
SALARY: 300000
================================================================================

Syeda Farzana Ali Shah

Child protection, against child sexual abuse and exploitation, Street
Children ,GESI, Safeguarding Specialist, TB Control, Family health,
MNCH, , CVE, Community engagement, Youth Development,
Capacity building Expert, Program Specialist

Syeda Farzana Ali Shah

Child protection, against child sexual abuse and exploitation, Street
Children ,GESI, Safeguarding Specialist, TB Control, Family health,
MNCH, , CVE, Community engagement, Youth Development,
Capacity building Expert, Program Specialist

Profile

I am a seasoned development professional with more than 17 years
of experience in national and international contexts, specializing in
gender inclusive mainstreaming, gender safeguarding and child
protection, response, relief, development and bilateral grants. I have
senior management and field-level expertise in project and
programme management, civil society and local government
capacity building, public-private partnership, institutional
partnership management, donor and government relations,
communications and advocacy.

My programmatic areas of interest and expertise include Health, Tb
Control, Counter violent and extremism (CVE), Gender /safe
guarding, water and sanitation, education, and capacity transfer. I
have demonstrated skills in gender safeguarding, donor liaison,
advocacy with the government, programme reviews and health
checks, M&E and learning documentation, presentations to
influence and leverage to achieve a greater impact. I enjoy working
with multidisciplinary teams to deliver results and fulfil their
potential. I excel at managing complex organizational change and
development programs. As a leader, manager, mentor, colleague or
employee, I value strategic analysis and direction setting as my key
attributes.

Contact

PHONE:
92 3336220705

EMAIL:

Farzanaali77 @hotmail.com

ADDRESS:
Jhina garden, Islamabad

Quresh colony, Bosan road, behind Toyota colony, multan
CONSULTANCIES & SHORT ASSIGNMENTS -— 2013-2023

1- Delivered Training as Master Trainer on child participation &
inclusion in safeguarding, Peshwar with VSO, UNICEF PRSP
(Education Cannot wait).

Master Trainer and Researcher on CVE (Counter Violent Extremism)
OTI, Befare, Samaj, EHD, Bargadh, YDF and many National
Organization Punjab, 2016 - 2019

2- Delivered Training as Master Trainer on child participation &
inclusion in safeguarding, Sawat Mala Fund.

3-Team Researcher ( Includovate pvt Ltd) Carry out a needs
assessment of women field staff to understand their needs,
experiences, and ideas for how their roles and Better Cotton’s ideas
and programmes evolve and improve. In particular, the needs
assessment will:

(Explore what empowerment means to women field staff Identify
barriers (e.g transportation and patriarchal structures) and
opportunities (e.g. progression goals) to women empowerment from
women field staff perspectives Identify the personal and
professional motivations of women field staff, Analyse variations in
women field staff roles and their perceptions on how their roles
could be adapted.

4-Master Trainer on Child Protection Against Child Sexual abuse,
Child counseling, with BCI project (cotton picker children) District
Khanewal and Rahim yar khan,2020.
5- Master Trainer Of the Training on gender mainstreaming, Human
Rights, Child Right UN Convention and Child protection in
Emergencies IN Dera Ismaeil Khan with Concern World Wide,2020.

6- Consultant as a gender inclusive and safe guarding of various
organization (Save the Children, /SPARC, and national organization
in south Punjab)

7-Master Trainer on Gender main streaming in policy and
implementations in District Rahim yar khan & Sulklhar with Oxfam
GB.

8-National Training Consultant (Child Protection Policy and
implementation module I ,ILIII ) Kinder not Helfe Pakistan 2013

9-Training Consultant (DRR, Child protection, WASH, Enterprise
Development, Leadership, Conflict Management, Youth and
Development) Plan International, ADRA Pakistan, CUP, Muslim
Aids, USAID, 2013 - 2019
key skills & Expertise

HIV/Aids, Health, Family planning, MNCH, TB Control

Child protection, safeguarding against Child sexual abuse and
exploitation (Street Children)

Gender Analysis, Gender Audit

Gender mainstreaming & Inclusive
Gender base Violence

Training & Capacity building

Conflict Management,

WASH

Life skill-based education

Countering Violent Extremism (CVE)
Countering Extremism & prevent (CVP)
MNCH/AIDS/Health

Advocacy & Community engagement and Mobilization.
M&E, Research

Operations management:

Program design and reporting
Hobbies

Book Reading
Movies
Cooking

Music
Travelling

Driving
References

NAME:
Mr. Saeed-Ul-Hassan,
PROFESSION:

Deputy Head of office British High commission Pakistan, British
High Commission | FCDO

EMAIL: saeed.shah@fcdo.gov.uk

PH: (92) 301 442 55 54

NAME:

Ms. Sarwat Jihan
PROFESSION:

Chief of the Party Independent Monitoring UNIT Pakistan USAID/
OTI

EMAIL: sarwat@befare.org

PH: (92) 304 544 17 14

NAME:

Mr. Ali Muhammad

PROFESSION:

Program Development Specialist USAID/OTI
EMAIL: Ali:muhammad@usaid.gov

PH: (92) 333 478 68 89

EDUCATION

MA Sociology

PU-Lahore

2002
Master in English

BZU-Multan

2000
Bachelor in arts
BZU-Multan

1998

ACHIVMENTS

Global Movement Peace Initiatives by US and Become USA
Alumni 2022

Selected first female who will speak about CVE (counter Violent
Extremism and Gender Issues ever from southern Punjab in global
movement peace initiatives by USA and become US Alumni 2022.

National Consultant Pakistan and Afghanistan KNH (countries
Pakistan and Afghanistan 2013

National Consultant and Trainer to Design child protection policies
and initiatives in town.

Project Coordinator Harm reduction of Female Drug user in
District jail Multan (UNDOC) 2008 - 2009

The first female to work with Female Jail prisoners in Southern
Punjab on health hygiene issues and risky behavior.
Project Coordinator, Pakistan safe drinking water and hygiene
promotion project; (USAID Abbt Consultant/PLYC) South Punjab,
2004 - 2005

The only one and first female in Pakistan who attended and then
delivered Water Filtration Plant operation in Pakistan to male
filtration plant operators.

WORK EXPERIENCE

National Rural Suport program, Pakistan (NRSP) Out of School
Children: Action for Learning (GOAL) in South Punjab- FCDO
and British counsel

Project Head/Focal Person and Gender and safeguarding Focal
person 2023- Continue (Islamabad)

Overall, the responsibility of the project, Administration and
Monitoring .

Leading Research, Base line assessment Planning and policy
advising.

Technical expertise is provided in planning and implementing of
GOAL and Child protection and project activities.

Maintain close liaison with national and Provincial authorities
ensuring optimum participation and promoting ownership of
national authorities in the implementation of the projects.
National Rural Suport program, Pakistan (NRSP) Community
Mobilization, Facilitation, and Demand Creation to Support the
Provincial TB Control Program in Sindh (JSI-USAID) and
Building Healthy Families Activity

(BHFA- Pathfinder) in Sindh

Gender Focal person Project Head/Focal Person Sindh 2023-
Continue (Islamabad)

Major Achievements

Overall the responsible of the both projects ) Community
Mobilization, Facilitation, and Demand Creation to Support the
Provincial TB Control Program in Sindh (JSI-USAID) and
Building Healthy Families Activity
(BHFA- Pathfinder) in Sindh

Provide substantive and timely input in the implementation of the
Tuberculosis projects, including reporting on progress vis-a-vis
planned activities and expected outputs.

Maintain close liaison with national and Provincial authorities
ensuring optimum participation and promoting ownership of
national authorities in the implementation of the projects.

Guide the Project team in the design and development of project
work plans, milestones, and indicators with technical working
groups, multi and bilateral partners and civil society.

Technical expertise provided in planning and implementing of TB
project and Family planning activities.

Provide substantive and technical direction and assistance to the
projects.

Ensure timely collection and provision of requested information for
the quarterly progress reports.

Jointly with M&E Manager, provide timely support to the
management in the preparation of progress reports, financial
planning and reporting, annual work plans and activity schedules.

(PAGE-NGO) Pakistan Alliance for Girls Education (ECW Multi-Year
Resilience Programme , Education Cannot Wait)

GESI Specialist/Safe guarding 2022- 2023 (Islamabad)

Major Achievements

Work with all departments and partners to ensure that gender
equity principles are incorporated into all policies and activities.

Ensure the implementation of all the gender deliverables in the
MYRP (gender main streaming and gender-targeted strategies in
consultation with partner organization

Lead on capacity building and knowledge building and
management on gender equality and empowerment of women and
girls.

Provide strategic advice to MYRP steering committee for integration
of gender Serve as quality assuror in MYRP implementation
ensuring gender issues are properly addressed.

Support in the creation of strategic partnerships and
implementation of resource mobilization strategies.

Support grantees to implement the MYRP in a gender-responsive
manner in line with the gender priorities identified in the MYRP
document and global/PAGE guidance on gender in EiEPC.

Establish the MYRP grantees and sub-grantees gender focal point
team and hold a regular coordination meeting to discuss issues and
find solutions.

Ensure the MYRP monitoring, and evaluation is gender-responsive:
review and provide inputs on the formulation of work plans,
budgets, monitoring, and evaluation mechanism (set milestones and
indicators for achievement)

Identify gender capacity gaps amongst the MYRP country team and
ensure adequate support is provided (training of gender focal
points, coaching,) in collaboration with relevant stakeholders in-
country based on earmarked MYRP funding available in the MYRP
budget. 2. Identify local and/or regional resources and networks
that can be accessed for knowledge building of MYRP country team
on gender equality and empowerment of women and girls

Support grantees to identify local women organizations for
collaboration and partnership as relevant and ensure local women
organizations are meaningfully engaged in the MYRP
implementation.

Participation, coordination and liasion with the UN Agencies,
donors, government institutions, and civil society in the promotion
of gender equality and women and girls empowerment in EiEPC
with a particular focus on key issues (nexus, localization, and local
women organizations, GBV risk mitigation).

UNDP-BEST PAK, Local Level Disengagement and
Rehabilitation (CVE/CVP)

Project Manager 2020-2020 (Islamabad)

Major Achievements

Overall project team management

Linkages development with Govt technical education institution for
rehabilitation process for the youth who were engaged VE

activities.

Establishing Gender Desk & Capacity building of government
departments

Linkages development with district stake holders

Develop referral mechanism and socio economics support and
Training.

USAID-OTI (Independent Monitoring Unit) Azm e Pakistan CVE

Coordinator- Punjab 2016-2019 (Islamabad)
Major Achievements

Overall responsible of Punjab activates
Coordinate and delegate schemes to the assigned staff, ensuring the
timely completion of data verification on scheme site;

Provide input to the Team Leader regarding team members
performance and reports status;

Organize, lead and facilitate project-related meetings, including the
creation of agendas and ensuring the availability of necessary
materials;

Coordinate and ensure timely feedback of the field activities

Provide and facilitate technical direction, education and training to
staff and M&E officers;

Document activities and develop feedback report to communicate
project findings, lessons learned and activities to collaborators and
other involved;

Ensuring the complete information regarding scheme deliverables;

Oversee the desk reviews conducted by the program assistants with
the field staff in order to ensure complete overview of the grant;

Gathering of baseline data and all additional data needed for
monitoring and evaluation;

Asses field reports to determine possible implications for
implementation and agree on corrective actions with appropriate
decision-makers;

Draft lessons learned at the end of each round;

Regularly update the Team leader & Security Manager about any
potential security risks or threats faced by the office or any staff
member Ensuring that any security threat is mitigated and dealt
with on time
HRDN- USAID-OTI , Umeed e Jawan Project-CVE

Project Head 2014-2015 (South Punjab)

Major Achievements

Responsible for providing comprehensive services and information
that enable returning youth to take an active role in their job search
and career decisions.

Responsible to plan and run the whole career counseling and
mentoring program.

Maintaining and encouraging a positive attitude towards the Youth
carrier counseling and mentoring program.

Create strong liaison with national level personalities to deliver
mentoring talks.

Serving as a reliable academic, campus/community resource and
referral agent.

Planning and management of central career development desk.
Development and execution of career development portal.

Helping students and youth establish goals and explore career
options.

Challenging students and youth to take risks and succeed both
inside and outside of the classroom.

Mentoring students during the project period.

Provides guidance and counseling to youth who are undecided
about their career opportunities and assists in the selection of
course work to support their career and academic goals.

Identifies current and prospective staffing requirements for local
businesses and organizations and provides information regarding
employment opportunities, both general and industry specific, for
full-time, part-time, internship and work-study opportunities.

Facilitation for registration of students and institutions in the career
development portal and other activities planned in the field related
to career counseling and mentoring seminars

( Save the Children &PLYC Multan Child Safeguarding and
response) 2012 - 2013

Project Manager 2012-2013 (Multan & Khanewal)

Major Achievements

The basic function of this position is to oversee the management,
implementation and administration of the projects being carried out
by the implementing partners. The monitoring and assessment
overall the projects on a regular basis and as per the approved plan
of action.

Coordinating the network amongst the Donner, Line Departments
and with other relevant stakeholders.

Organize workshops for the partners/projects on identified trainings
needs.
To provide input on the standards and strategies of organization’s
programs in Pakistan (e. g. minimum standards for child-friendly
spaces, SPHERE, and other internationally recognized minimum
standards).

Regular visits to project areas for monitoring and implementation of
the project and provide technical feedback to save the children and
Country Office.

Maintain programme related, beneficiaries and any other data in
system in efficient and presentable manner for organization’s
database.

Prepare a report on each monitoring visit carried out and submit it
to Country Office.

Facilitate on activity reports carried out for organization (quarterly,

bi-annually and annually) or as need arises and submit them to
Country Office in time.

Welt Hunger hilfe and CESVI (German INGO MULTAN) EOCHO
I, 0, Il 2010 - 2012

Emergency Response (Multan & Muzaffargarh)

Office Manager, Team Lead WASH & Gender Inclusion 2010-2012
(Islamabad)

Major Achievements

Overall Responsible of WASH, Health Hygiene and cash for work
Component

Master Trainer on inclusive Community Health Hygiene
Develop the Manual of WASH for community

Managing a Cash for work regarding latrine construction
To ensure the continuity of the existing WASH Strategy and update
it if necessary according to the changing context of the area

To Monitoring all WASH Activity

To manage all field WASH activates

To manage all Health Hygiene Training for community

To Manage all health Hygiene inclusive Promotion

To support the WASH field team

To ensure a smooth internal coordination with another department

Working in Partnership and Capacity Strengthening of local
partners

To manage the WASH team based in the capital and external
partners.

Idara Taleem o Aghahi/ (ITA) & Oxfam , Water sanitation and
hygiene specially for School going Girls

Manager Lifer skill-based Education and Safe guarding

(South Punjab )2009 - 2010

Major Achievements

Totally manage and responsible 4 district Multan, muzafarghar,
chinyot, Rahim yar kahn, Providing a Health hygiene training and

life skills for Govt schools teacher and students (FRESH/WASH).

Conduct the gender analysis/ audit, develop the gender
mainstreaming strategy

Making linkages with line departments, philanthropists and
community elders for the resource mobilization for the betterment
of community.
Conducted Capacity Building Training workshops for CBOs of in
project activities.

Conducted Communication skills Training workshops for Social
Mobilizes of local NGOs and CBOs.

Mobilized communities for the safe birth preparedness and
complication readiness.

Conducted trainings for the community health support groups.

Managed social activities like speech /poster competitions, matches
and theater performances in local community.

Conducted Training on Personal Hygin/ menstrual health for School
Going girls and also Teachers and Community Female

Overall Responsible of WASH, Health Hygiene and cash for work
Component

Master Trainer on inclusive Community Health Hygiene
Develop the Manual of WASH for community
Managing a Cash for work regarding latrine construction

To ensure the continuity of the existing WASH Strategy and update
it if necessary according to the changing context of the area

UNDOC Harm reduction of Female Drug user in District jail
Multan

Project Coordinator 2007 - 2009

Major Achievements

Overall the responsible of the project
Gender analysis

Counselling with Sex worker and drug addicted female
Consoling female prisoner

Sensitization the Jail staff on HIV, STI, Drugs, Personal Hygiene

Responsible for the submission of quarterly and annual report of the
project.

Legal support for Female Prisoner and Medical support for Female
Prisoner.

Advocacy and lobbing campaigns.

Conducted the FGDs & In-depth interviews of sex worker, female
prisoner and drug addicted female.

USAID-PLYC Pakistan initiative Mother & Neonate Health
(PAIMAN)

Project Coordinator 2005 - 2006 (Multan)

Major Achievements
To insure proper implementation of project activities.

Awareness session on gender rights, reproductive health right, with
male and female

Conduct Awareness session and Mass Complaining regarding gender
rights , risk reduction of harm risky behavior aginst Mother,
sensitization of male regarding gender discrimination

To monitor project team in the field activities.
To mobilize community while conducting huge sessions with them
according to project demand.

Responsible for the submission of quarterly and annual report of the
project.

To ensure Capacity building of the team.
To ensure Coordination amongst NGO head and project donors.

To make linkages amongst lines department, community and NGO
heads.

USAID Abbt Consultant/PLYC Pakistan safe drinking water and
hygiene promotion project

BCC Coordinator South Punjab, 2004 - 2005

Major Achievements

Coordinating overall management & project implementation at
south Punjab level.

Develop the gender analysis and BCC strategic

As a focal point on Trachoma Elimination, oversee all aspects of
BCC element and delivery in line with objectives, budgets, timelines
and standards of the project.

Undertake background research for evidence-based BCC
programming for all programmes of Pakistan.

Design and develop BCC plans, materials and products with
appropriate branding and compliance with respective institutional
regulations and guidelines.

Organize BCC Training of Trainers (ToTs) for Implementing
Partners (IP) staff and oversight to replication of trainings at district
levels as well as regular technical guidance and support for smooth
implementation of the project.
Ensure that monitoring system tools, checklists, indicators,
reporting formats are in place to track immediate results/outputs
and impact/outcomes against planned initiatives.

Undertake field visits to partners to oversee implementation and
provide on-site feedback for required improvements, and generate
field visit reports with timely and appropriate follow up on action
points.

Conduct periodic project reviews and prepare project reports for

management and outside as and when required.

Child protection, child sexual abuse and exploitation (Steer
children) (IMTIZAJ/ SANJOG-VISON NGO Lahore, Co-founded by
Group development ECAPT Luxemburg Ministry of Foreign Affair
European Union

Field Coordinator, Lahore, Punjab, 2003 - 2004
Major Achievements

Design and implement a comprehensive safeguarding assessment/
Mapping of Lahore.

Designing the outreach protocols

Provide comprehensive training, including regular refresher
training, on outreach, counseling , non-formal education, how to
work with street children’s safeguarding.

Develop self-assessment tools track progress of safeguarding and
protection components within the project.

Regular Field Visit. Monitoring the activities.

Preparation of monthly, quarterly, and annual reports relating to
project activities as agreed by Program Manager.

Develop the raffle mechanism.
