=== App 1356 | Abdul Salam | salam.co2005@outlook.com | Islamabad  ===

Abdul Salam 
F 11, Markaz, Islamabad, Mobile: +92.0301-8550790 +92.345-9551980 
Email: saafsehatmand.pakistan@gmail.com , salam.co2005@outlook.com 
 
Snapshot of Career (2004 – 2026) 21 years: Mr. Salam is an experienced Humanitarian and Program Development & 
support specialist around Climate change, Public and Env health, Water and Total Sanitation, Waste Management 
Communal and public urban Models, Humanitarian response, early recovery, and rehabilitation Specialist. Design and 
implement dozens of Development projects during last two decades on WASH, Street child, education, Sport for 
development with inclusive (Equity and Inclusion) at National level. Having sound grip to manage multiple Projects 
and Programs around Poverty reduction, Micro enterprise, Community Livelihood Fund CLF, Education, WASH, Health, 
Governance and Advocacy through Social Mobilization and behavior change communication. Proven expertise to 
manage World bank, USAID, DFID, AusAid, Co Water, GIZ, EHCO and UNICEF, UNHCR, Global fund funded projects and 
programs in Urban and rural development context in Pakistan. 
Experience 
KP City Improvement Program  
Consultant Capacity Building, Community Engagement and Advocacy 
Government of Khyber Phuktoonkhwa (Supported by: Asian Development Bank) 
April 2025 to Dec 2025 
The objective of the consultancy is to design, implement, and support capacity-building initiatives and community 
engagement strategies that enhance public awareness, stakeholder participation, and advocacy for sustainable and 
inclusive urban development under the KPCIP. Major Responsibilities are Capacity building needs assessment report, 
Capacity building and community engagement strategy, Training modules and workshop reports, Advocacy and 
awareness materials, Periodic progress and final consultancy report.  
 
Building Healthy Families Activity (BHFA) USAID Funded  
Rural Support Programme Network (RSPN)  
Nov 1st, 2023, onward  
Working as National WASH and Nutrition Coordinator  
Under the USAID Funded BHFA programme in 36 District of KP, Sindh and Punjab. Lead, Plan, design and execute 
through local partners RSPs at field Level. The prime objective of the segment under the BHFA is to improve the 
community health and resilience level by improved practices for safe and healthy living. Covering Schools, Community 
and Health facilities identified by DOH Sindh and PWD Departments for upgrade the WASH Services and Strengthen 
the capacities to ensure Infection prevention and control measures through improved WASH services as enabling 
environment by engaging Gender and Youth, Health Systems, Climate resilience, Pandemic preparedness, and Urban 
public and private models.  
 
NORCAP  
(Under One UN Response team)  
Turkey and Syria  
Feb 15th to Aug 2023  
Under the Deployment of NORCAP, As International Humanitarian WASH Roster on Hybrid Position. This role is specific 
responsible to plan, design and Provide Support through local partners organizations and Red Cross societies to ensure 
Drinking and water for domestic purposes safe sanitation services under One UN Response Mission to Turkey and Syria 
and supported Resource mobilization unit.  
Water Resources Accountability in Pakistan (WRAP)  
Foreign Commonwealth Development Office - FCDO 
Provincial Manager FCDO WRAP Project KP  
Feb 15th, 2022, to Jan20 2023                                                                                                  
Worked as Provincial team lead /Manager for KP office to overall manage the Water Resources accountability in 
Pakistan WRAP Project funded by FCDO (UKAID). My basic role was to overall team lead, coordination, Stakeholder 
involvement to ensure Nature Based Solutions through community led driven interventions through community 
involvement and Nature Based Solutions NBS (Water resource conservation and Management, Solar based 
interventions for Drinking water and energy efficient design and implementation. Advocacy through stakeholder 
involvement to build their capacities as well mainstream the Nature Based Solution as sustainable solution. The basic 
objective of the WRAP is to reduce and ensure the reduced carbon emissions and footprints, and durable and 
sustainable project interventions through community led and community maintain and sustain approach to ensure 
sustainability. 
Program Manager  
(Social Sector, Protection, Emergencies)  
Muslim hands Worldwide  
Jan 1st, 2021 – Jan 10th, 2022 (1 Years)  
Worked as Programme Manager (Head of Programmes) for AJ&K Chapter for 10 Districts, Major responsibilities are to 
manage a versatile and diversified team as Lead the WASH (Installation of 150 Drinking water filtration units, Solid 
Waste Management Unit as IRRC Model for Mirpur City, rehabilitation and upgradation of 150 School Toilets equipped 
with all MHM facilities. Health, Livelihood, Food Security, Orphan Sport Programme, Disability, and Street child 
education and Sport for development S4D & Elderly Support projects, Environment and Climate change, Emergencies 
and inclusion are the cross-cutting theme. Responsible to Plan, design Training modules, organize Trainings, IEC 
material for Education, Health and Hygiene, Water and Sanitation, Responding Seasonal Outbreaks and COVID 19 as 
national campaign. Design and draft Concept notes, studies tools, monitoring framework, Proposal’s and sustainability 
mechanism. Lead national campaigns through local community engagements and stakeholder involvement. Provide 
on job mentor and coaching to field staff. Stakeholder coordination, Liaison with Donors and Head office Programme 
unit. Support the needs assessment process and the project design. Ensure active participation of MH partners in all 
steps of the programme cycle. Manage and strengthen partners’ capacities by providing training and support. Ensuring 
the effective use of the internal programme management system (P3). Monitor programme work to maintain and/or 
improve the quality, incorporating learning in the programme and ensuring achievement of the desired impact. 
Ensuring project reports and documents are reviewed and partners are provided reporting support. Liaise with 
partners and programmes team to ensure up-to-date learning and capacity training on a range of areas. 
Programme Support Coordinator  
(Global Fund Malaria Control Programme)  
National Rural Support Programme  
Jan 2020 – Dec 2020  
Emergency Programme Lead COVID 19 (April – Dec 2020) 
As Lead, I was responsible to Design and develop awareness raising material and training module on COVID – 19 
awareness raising and prevention in three languages, i.e., English, Urdu and Sindhi for two days training of RSP’s field 
staff in 152 Districts including community mobilizers, CRPs, senior district managers and team leads. During the 
assignment developed material in three languages, i.e., English, Urdu and Sindhi to conduct the awareness raising 
sessions for SMC and community members on COVID – 19 awareness raising and prevention under NRSP’s “WISE for 
Community Development Programme”. Having sound grip and can refer already developed material of SELD 
guidelines, as well as application of sound health and hygiene practices based on guideline from NCOC, World Health 
Organization (WHO), UNICEF, and USAID. Conduct 22 two days training of trainers (TOT) events in all over Pakistan 
about COVID 19 awareness and prevention Test Trace and Quarantine TTQ for NRSP and Donor funded Projects 
through field staff on developed module and other awareness raising material for further cascading with SMT’s & CRPs 
and communities. Facilitate quality training report. Secondment with GFATM as Logistics Coordinator under 
Directorate of Malaria Control (Combine Management unit for TB, HIV and Malaria. Responsible to coordinate and 
manage overall Operations of Malaria Control Project Supply chain management of Anti-Malarial drugs in ten districts 
of Sindh and Baluchistan. Coordination with all District warehouses and facilities for the timely provision of AMDs. 
Compiling reports on monthly bases, report and facilitate quarterly review with DoMC. Regular coordination with 
DoMC Logistics team for time-to-time supply related matters from Central warehouse to Provinces and Districts.  
 
WISE & WASH Projects: 
Contributing as focal point in Coordinator WISE (Water, Immunization, Sanitation and Education) Programme 
(Worth 800Million): Initiated one of necessitated Urban Pilot intervention of NRSP’s core WISE programme in 18 
Tehsils of Pakistan. Visited, Found and formed women led groups at village level and strengthen their capacities around 
safe water, self-help-based Sanitation Signed MOU with WWF for the low cost and social applicable waste 
management models (Trash into Energy). Another MOU’s signed between Metropolitan Corporation’s and NRSP for 
the UC based solid waste management. Sustainable WASH Also liable for additionally assigned activities like WISE 
Programme, WASH projects in Sindh and Balochistan. Contributing to and donor funded projects around Health 
(Malaria control, RH, MHM), WASH (Sustainable WASH, ASWA, PATs, and CDLD & PINS EU), Education PEF, SEF, Ilm 
Ideas, Humanitarian 9Civid response, Flood Response) in KPK, Sindh and Baluchistan. NRSP with partnership of DOMC 
(Global Fund) is working to eradicate Malaria in ten Districts of Sindh and Baluchistan since 2010. As Logistic 
Coordinator I am responsible to manage all Malaria control Programme Medicine, RDT, LLINs, and BCC materials for 
the orientation and capacity building, also responding outbreaks as per need called by District and provincial Health 
directorate. Coordinate with Logistic team for proper stock availability and manage the stock request on time. 
Traveling District and facilities for spot check, monitoring and quality assurance through data management MIS, Case 
management reports, and coordination with PSM DOMC for quarterly reporting.  
 
WASH & BCC Specialist  
(Urban and Rural Projects and Programmes)  
National Rural Support Programme  
Jan 1st 2018 – Dec 2019 
As WASH Specialist for all WASH related Core Programs and Donor funded Urban and Rural Projects/Pilots for upscale. 
The Basic role of this position to Provide technical support to all Project Managers, Filed Staff and Stake holders on 
WASH to upscale and replicate. Establishment of sustainable WASH model in Urban and Rural Context and advocacy 
for upscale and replication through Govt line departments and public private partnerships at national level to achieve 
the SDG’s. Under this role the key responsibilities are, as focal point, to design and implement the UNICEF, DFID, 
WATERAID, and HM&CF funded projects. Managing as team lead of NRSP’s own funded Water Immunization, 
Sanitation and Education WISE in 185 UC’s, 18 tehsils of 10 districts of Four provinces included AJK.  
 
National WASH Coordinator South Asia WASH Results Programme SAWRP 
Plan International via National Rural Support Programme  
August 4th, 2014 – 30th Dec 2017 (3 -1/2 year)  
 
During this position as WASH Coordinator for South Asia WASH Results Programme (SAWRP) in Nine Districts of Punjab 
KPK and Punjab managed the interventions of budget PKR 980 million. SAWRP was purely based on payment by results 
(PBR) model funded by UKAID (DFID). The major responsibilities are, to manage all the WASH related Projects (SAWRP, 
DFID WinS, USAID WASH & Stunting Programme for Balochistan and Sindh and core Programme WISE in all four 
Provinces and 18 districts. Strategic planning about Targets, budget, and operational procedure and maintaining HR 
capacities in field are the major responsibilities. Assist the Programs Heads in review, future planning & expansion of 
projects and program core areas. Facilitated Different government and stakeholders about policy 
development/implementation. Staff recruitment, training & mentoring for Governance structure strengthening. 
Supportive role for team members in managing their work plans, Communication and liaison with all programs, 
Monitoring and reporting of Projects within the time. Represent Projects (SAWRP) at national and international level, 
Initiative for program’s visibility. Launch Multiple level BCC Campaigns for community motivation and mobilization 
and Advocacy for PATS with stakeholders to upscale the WASH program.  
 
Consultant CO WATER Canada – CESSD KPK & Punjab  
Capacity Building and Material Development on WATER Sector KPK  
March to August 2014 
Served as Consultant Capacity Building under Water Sector Governance Programme for KPK & Punjab (LGRD & PHED) 
with CO-WATER International Canada. My Basic Jds are to conduct TNA, Design Trainings for LGRD & PHED Provincial 
to District and District to UC level setup for governance strengthening through TORs and SOPs, and in place suitable & 
sustainable model of regular Billings from end user & maintain and sustain the O&M mechanism, I am also responsible 
to develop a cadre of Master Trainer on Community Management Skills Training for Water User Committees in CESSD 
Water Sector Selected Districts of Punjab and KPK. And built the capacity of PHED & LDRD Official staff regarding 
Community management and Issues relevance grievance and redressal system. 
 
Provincial PATS Master Trainer – SPSP UNICEF  
Rural Support Programme Network – RSPN  
April 1st 2013 to August 3rd, 2014 
Under Social Sector Services Sanitation Programme at scale in Pakistan through Pakistan approach toward total 
sanitation PATS supported by UNICEF Pakistan. PATS initiated on pilot bases in sixteen flood affected districts of four 
provinces. As a master trainer PATS, I am overall managing the capacity building side of this programme in KPK. 
Capacity building of the IP’s Staff and Mentoring & coaching till to end. All the basic Understanding of total sanitation 
through PATS, SLTS, Sanitation Marketing, Linkages development and CLTS is basic responsibility of Provincial Master 
Trainer PATS.  
Manager Coordination & Emergency Response  
Messerior (German Humanitarian Organization)  
Jul 2011 – 20th March 28, 2013. 1 ½ years  
At National level performing as a Manager Coordination & Emergency Response, heading the humanitarian operations 
nation-wide. Designing Emergency Contingency, Disaster Preparedness plans, Clusters Coordination for rehabilitation 
and restoration of affected community in the flood affected zone (Badin, Tharparkar, Tando Mohammad Khan) of 
Sindh province. Situation analysis, Rapid assessment, Sectoral assessments to project implementation and completion, 
coordinate with the Donor’s agencies for follow up and better achievement, Liaising, Team Capacity Building, 
frequently visits of operational area for the transparent result, Daily, weekly, and monthly basis report to senior 
executive’s, Cluster and sub cluster’s coordinators and other line stake holder for sustainable updates. As a Lead 
Emergency person, I have managed different Projects in Emergency Response by 15.5 million USD of fund and 92 field 
staff funded by Misserior Germany for ER&R (Foods, Non-Food, Shelter & NFIs, Health, WASH, Psychosocial Support) 
with cross cutting theme of protection. During the job Donor meetings, Cluster Coordination, Monitoring and logistics 
mechanism during the operation Review meetings, monitoring and quality assurance are the main responsibilities. 
Master Trainer WASH -SINDH – WASH (UNICEF – NRDP) During Emergency operation lead the WASH cluster since Oct 
2011 to Oct 2012 for Badin & Tharparkar.  
Consultant for Impact Study and manual   
(Pakistan Approach to Total Sanitation - PATS)- Nationwide  
Rural Support Programme Network – RSPN, Islamabad, Pakistan  
Jan 2009 to June 2011 (2 ½ Years)  
April 2011 – June 2011: The Rural Support Programmes Network (RSPN) is the largest development network of 
Pakistan; under this role I have performed as Key resource consultant to design and developed a questionnaire and 
motivational manual for the nation-wide research at village level with the support of RSPs. In this resource 
documentation specially focused the women’s and children’s and their comments and involvement. In this consultancy 
I have coordinated with 20 international NGOs experts of water & sanitation about their recommendations and 
feedback for the National Policy. 
Benazir Income Support Programme (BISP)  
As District Team Leader – Abbottabad  
Rural Support Programme Network – RSPN, Islamabad, Pakistan  
Aug 2010 – March 2011 
As a Team leader / manager different assigned duty performed by me in which mainly Manage the cadre of around 90 
field staff of BISP survey, in which Supervisor’s, Monitor’s, Editors, GPS Reader’s, Forward Campaigner’s, and tracking 
officer at Tehsil Level. Logistical Management Manage the Given target route plan of survey. Manage the overall 
transport arrangements in which Fueling maintenance driver shifting, route Maps for team and security clearance for 
teams. Design daily field plan for the field target area and provide him full logistical support. Daily report to District 
Team Leader and regional officer about daily enumeration and frequently visit the survey teams for the spot-checking 
and evaluate the quality of form. Coordination with the BISP Regional and National Staff for field visit to ensure the 
survey quality and time to time cross check. 
Project Officer  
Water Sanitation and Hygiene - WASH 
UNICEF   
Jan 2009 - Jul 2010 
As Project officer Hygiene & Sanitation designing of Strategy & Implementation facilitation in Social Sector Services 
Strategy & Planning for Provincial RSPs staff & organized the Training of Trainers ToTs in Districts of Sindh on Tools & 
Technique of Social Mobilization CLTS, Mason Trainings on Latrine Construction & Hygiene Promotion in (CLTS) 
component. Designing of Project Strategy for targeted area & designing of training schedules for Tots. Planning of 
Different Events on National level. Sanitation Weeks, Hand washing practices event, Solid waste dumping campaigns, 
and different meeting with government official about the planning of Behavior Change Campaign against shit free 
environment. In which IEC Material According to PRA and arrangements of technical material, Training Venue & Over 
all training session monitoring.  
Project Officer WASH / Senior Trainer Total Sanitation 
(Water Sanitation and Sanitation)   
UNICEF / SSD/ WASH (1 Year)   
Jan 2008 - Dec 2008  
As a Project Officer WASH / Senior Trainer (SSD, UNICEF) WES to Collect Baseline Data of Open Defecated Area and 
Coordinate with the other wash member and Govt for Conduct Capacity building timetable for the earthquake affected 
communities. Triggering Sessions conducted by wash teams. Conduct the Heath & Hygiene Sessions by the female 
teams with the LHW, LHV, and the primary school teachers. Monitoring visits conduct by different team to Triggered 
area and design a strong follow up Strategy. In School led Total Sanitation (SLTS) Project Funded by UNICEF.  
Senior Social Organizer / Trainer - (CPI & WES)   
SRSP / KPF / Min of Finance (1 Year)   
Jan 2007 - Nov 2007:  
As a Social Organizer in SRSP under Khushal Pakistan Fund –KPF a fully Govt funded program was 
initiated by Ministry of finance. As a Social organizer I was responsible for whole tehsil and covering more than 250 
village-based community organization and their community infrastructure projects. Community Organizations, Village 
Organizations capacity building accordingly RSP’s mandate and code of conduct. Conduct the Different Mobilization 
Session on Micro Enterprise and Mini loan schemes, Need Identification of Infrastructure Development under Khushal 
Pakistan Fund (KPF). Conduct the Social Dialogue in different areas of Abbott bad & Haripur. 
  
Warehouse Supervisor - (Food & Non-Food items)  
World food Programme  
ERRA, Abbottabad (2 Years)   
Oct 2005 - Dec 2006 
As a Warehouse Supervisor under Logistics with WFP after the devastating earthquake Oct 8th, 2005, badly hit the 
north of Pakistan especially Abbottabad, Mansehra, Batagram, Balakote, Kohistan, and eight districts of Ajk Kashmir. 
Mostly families were moved to Mansehra & Abbott bad. Coordination of ERRA and NWFP govt. In the time of one & 
half year of my services registration of affected families, arrangement of accommodation, ration card, food & nonfood 
items in twice in a month. Daily update the record of Food & Non-Food Items. Weekly and Month report submitted to 
manager warehouse and Response team head. Coordination with WFP logistics for Food & Non-Food Items on daily 
bases. Daily provide food items for Banda sahib khan tent village (10500) Affected families. Donor visits, record keeping 
etc. 
 
Education:  
Masters in International Relations & Affairs (2012)  
Masters in Sociology (2009)  
Bachelor’s in Arts Sociology and Law (2005)  
Professional Education 
Diploma in Public Health (USIAD – Bloomberg) 85 %  
Diploma in IPC and WASH (Waste Management) WHO and UNICEF Joint Venture through IWRM and LSHTM 
Humanitarian management Course – Harvard 92% - 2014 – Cambridge USA 
Certificate in Social Norms Inclusion in WASH – University of Pennsylvania (USA) 
Certificate in Urban Sanitation (Solid Waste Management Options)– (IHDP- UN University) 75% - Malaysia 
Diploma in Human Resources – ALISON IRELAND 96.80% 
Diploma in Health and Safety at Workplace – ALISON IRELAND 98.00%  
Diploma in Project Management – 2018 - ALISON IRELAND 99.00%  
Diploma in Business Management & Entrepreneurship – 2018 - ALISON IRELAND 100.00% 
 
Membership 
International Trainer for Community Led Total Sanitation (WSP, DFID, UNICEF, CLTS Foundation)   
National Trainer for Total Sanitation, PATS & BCC (GOP, Unicef, WHO, RSPN, CLTS Foundation)  
National Trainer for Social Mobilization & Community Organization for Integrated Approach (RSPN, GoP, RSP’s, CARE, 
OXFAM, HRDS, Muslim Aid)  
Member of CLTS Foundation and International WASH Trainers Consortium  
Member of National Behavior Change Strategic Committee and International WSSCC 


--- COVER NOTE ---
Hiring Manager
Taleemabad
Pakistan

Subject: Application for Fundraising and Partnership Manager

Dear Hiring Manager,

I am writing to express my strong interest in the Fundraising and Partnership Manager position at Taleemabad. As a mission-driven professional with experience in resource mobilization, donor engagement, and strategic partnerships, I am inspired by Taleemabad’s commitment to transforming education in Pakistan through innovative digital learning solutions.

Throughout my career, I have successfully developed and executed fundraising strategies that diversified revenue streams and strengthened institutional sustainability. I have led grant proposal development, cultivated relationships with corporate and philanthropic partners, and managed donor communications to ensure transparency, compliance, and long-term engagement.

My key strengths include:
	•	Designing and implementing comprehensive fundraising strategies aligned with organizational growth goals
	•	Identifying and securing funding from foundations, corporate CSR programs, and international donors
	•	Building strategic partnerships that create shared value and expand program reach
	•	Leading proposal writing processes and donor reporting with strong impact storytelling
	•	Maintaining donor databases and tracking fundraising performance metrics

I am particularly drawn to Taleemabad’s innovative use of technology, animation, and blended learning to reach underserved communities. I believe strong partnerships and sustainable funding are critical to scaling such impactful solutions, and I am eager to contribute to expanding Taleemabad’s network of supporters and strategic allies.

Beyond fundraising expertise, I bring strong relationship management, communication, and negotiation skills. I am confident in representing the organization at stakeholder meetings, partnership forums, and donor engagements while clearly articulating program impact and growth potential.

I would welcome the opportunity to contribute to Taleemabad’s mission of making quality education accessible to every child in Pakistan. Thank you for considering my application. I look forward to the possibility of discussing how I can support your fundraising and partnership development objectives.

Sincerely,
Abdul Salam

--- CUSTOM ANSWERS ---
{"1771234340593": {"answer": "There is lot of examples of Funding relationships but one is the best, I have submitted EOI for WaterAid Pakistan for some WASH Social Mobilization but gradually it’s converted into Strategic partnerships and it’s been 15 years the Organisation NRSP is regular Implementing Partner of WAP in Sindh and Punjab.", "question": "One example of a funding relationship you built or a deal you helped close, and what made it work"}}