=== App 1381 | Hamdan Ahmad | hamdanahmad2@outlook.com | Islamabad ===

 
 
Hamdan Ahmad 
Social Development Professional 
 
Islamabad, Pakistan 
   +92-323-6241686 | hamdanahmad2@outlook.com | LinkedIn 
Address: House 18 Street 118 G-13/4 Islamabad 
 
 
SUMMARY  
A dedicated Programme Management professional with 5 years of experience delivering complex development projects in 
Pakistan, with a strategic focus on Inclusion, Governance, and Social Safeguards. Proven expertise in managing the full 
programme cycle, from design and financial/commercial management of partners to risk management and monitoring & 
evaluation across multiple sectors, including Health, Education, Social Protection, Disaster Relief, and Water & Urban 
Infrastructure. Has a proven track record of working with both government institutions and local communities in Khyber 
Pakhtunkhwa, Punjab, and Sindh to deliver tangible results on the development interventions. 
 
SKILLS
● Project Management 
● Policy Development 
● Outreach & Advocacy 
● Data Analytics 
● Research & Analysis 
● Engagement Planning 
● 
Monitoring & Evaluation 
● 
Risk Asesm 
● 
Communication
 
PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE          
 
World Bank Group  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
                 Islamabad, Pakistan  
Capacity Building, Training, and Outreach Consultant 
May 2022 – June 2024 
Environmental and Social Framework Capacity Development Project 
• 
Managed the end-to-end program rollout, using detailed logistical coordination and stakeholder management, resulting 
in the successful delivery of capacity-building events for 43 universities, 10 PMUs, and 6 CSOs. 
• 
Designed and executed a comprehensive academic training program, using newly developed training materials, 
toolkits, and curricula, resulting in the integration of Environmental and Social Standards (ESS) into university 
research and courses to bridge theory with practice. 
• 
Played a key role in establishing the Center of Excellence for Environmental and Social Safeguards at NED 
University, developing core training curricula and facilitating stakeholder workshops to successfully launch a 
permanent institution that embedded ESS expertise into academia. 
World Bank’s Reforms for a Brighter Future Initiative – Pakistan ASA project - $ 100 million 
• 
Spearheaded the development of a comprehensive national Outreach and Engagement Strategy, using in-depth 
stakeholder analysis across government, industry, civil society, and academia, resulting in a unified framework to drive 
consensus and action on key economic reforms in Productive, Equitable, Green, and Human Capital Growth. 
• 
Conceived and led the rolling out of a flagship Academic Policy Hackathon series nationwide, managing training 
providers and robust partner network, resulting in the successful engagement of 27 universities and 1,200 
postgraduate students to generate innovative, youth-driven policy solutions for Pakistan's economic agenda. 
Afghanistan’s Advisory Services and Analytics (ASA) Project 
• 
Directed the enhancement of E&S training modules and the systematic scheduling of the annual training 
calendar, strengthening the capacity-building program with updated knowledge products and tools for ESCPs, SEPs, 
GRM, and incident reporting. 
 
Project Design and Strategy Consultant 
June 2023 - June 2025 
Second Karachi Water and Sewerage Services Improvement Project - $600 Million 
 
• 
Anchored the citizen engagement strategy, using a tri-annual Customer Satisfaction Index (CSI) survey designed 
with a 7-point Likert scale and weighted attribute analysis to directly link beneficiary feedback to service 
improvements, resulting in a data-driven framework that systematically guided project performance and optimized 
outcomes for a 19-million-person beneficiary pool. 
Sindh Flood Emergency Housing Reconstruction Project - $1200 Million 
• 
Designed and integrated comprehensive social safeguards into the core project management scheme, applying 
technical guidance and risk mitigation protocols to drive operational efficiency and ensure full alignment with the 
World Bank’s Environmental and Social Framework. 
National Health Support Program – 300 million 
• 
Designed the operational blueprint for the project's Grievance Redressal Mechanism (GRM), integrating diverse 
existing complaint registration channels into a centralized Management Information System (MIS) to unify and 
streamline accountability for all funded health facilities across the Capital and the provinces of Punjab, Sindh, and 
KPK. 
 
 
Risk Assessment and Policy Analysis Consultant  
 May 2024 - Present 
Public Resources for Inclusive Development Program – Federal and Sindh - $600 Million 
• 
Analyzed the political economy of proposed fiscal and macroeconomic reforms, using targeted assessments to 
identify risks of social exclusion and adverse impacts on stressed sectors like services and agriculture, resulting in a 
foundational evidence base that shaped the program's equity-focused agenda. 
• 
Directed the development of the Environmental and Social Systems Assessment (ESSA), applying World Bank ESF 
standards to diagnose political-economic and fiscal reform risks, resulting in a foundational framework that 
identified drivers of social exclusion and adverse impacts on stressed sectors like services and agriculture. 
• 
Institutionalized the ESSA findings into the program's core Action Plan, designing monitoring frameworks and 
capacity-building initiatives that embedded social risk mitigation into implementation, ensuring ongoing compliance 
and the structured inclusion of stakeholder feedback into policy decisions. 
Sindh Flood Emergency Housing Reconstruction Project - $1200 Million 
• 
Designed and integrated inclusive land allocation procedures into the Resettlement Policy Framework, using 
sophisticated risk analysis to proactively mitigate exclusion risks for women and vulnerable groups, resulting in a 50% 
reduction in potential land ownership exclusion cases for flood-affected populations and ensuring equitable access to 
resources. 
 
Environmental and Social Safeguards Consultant 
April 2023-Present 
Karachi Water and Sewerage Services Improvement Project (SOP-1 & 2) - $700 Million 
• 
Successfully led the development of social safeguard instruments from donor side and implementation of social 
management plans including Land Acquisition & Resettlement Plans, Stakeholder Engagement Plans, Labor 
Management Plans, Grievance Redressal Mechanisms etc., addressing critical social issues such as gender equality, 
child protection, GBV, SEA, social inclusion, and land acquisition. 
Karachi Mobility Project (Yellow Line) - $438 Million 
• 
Provided technical support for the development of social safeguard instruments, including Livelihood Restoration and 
Compensation Plans and Grievance Redress Mechanisms (GRM), ensuring minimum negative impact on vulnerable 
groups alignment with donor-mandated social safeguard policies. 
• 
Conducted thorough evaluations of management plans, contractor compliance reports, stakeholder engagement 
strategies, progress reports, and technical documentation, ensuring strict adherence to social safeguard standards and 
regulatory frameworks. 
Sindh Integrated Health and Population Project - $200 Million 
 
• 
Contributed to the execution of social safeguards documents at project sites including labor management plans, 
Community Health and Safety plans, etc. focusing on health and population outcomes while ensuring alignment with 
social protection frameworks. 
• 
Assisted in the development of the Grievance Redressal Mechanism (GRM) of the project, providing strategic guidance 
to ensure the successful execution and accessibility of GRM to beneficiaries.  
Balochistan Human Capital Investment Project - $36 Million 
• 
Facilitated the implementation of social safeguards with an emphasis on gender equality, child protection, and social 
inclusion to support project objectives. 
Getting Results: Access and Delivery of Quality Education Services in Balochistan & Punjab - $100 Million 
• 
Developed comprehensive social safeguard frameworks for education programmes, including Stakeholder 
Engagement Plans (SEP) and Voluntary Land Donation Frameworks, ensuring compliance with international 
safeguards and directly supporting SDG 4 (Quality Education) outcomes. 
• 
Formulated project risks mitigation framework through community consultations and operational grievance redress 
mechanisms, ensuring minimal negative impact on vulnerable groups and promoting inclusive access to education. 
Strengthening Social Protection Delivery Systems in Sindh Project - $200 Million 
• 
Supported the creation of social safeguards and action plans to strengthen inclusive social protection systems, 
enhancing coverage for vulnerable populations in Sindh. 
 
SHOR Inc.          
 
 
 
 
 
                                                     Islamabad, Pakistan 
Strategic Alignment and Communication Advisor           
 
 
                                      April 2023–Present  
• 
Orchestrated the end-to-end development of executive communications and strategic narratives for diverse, high-
profile clients (including Arif Anis MBE, Mr. Olympia World, and the Pakistan Pavilion at Dubai Global Village 
2023), taking full ownership from initial research to the final packaging of insights that amplified their unique 
thought leadership and strategic vision. 
• 
Synthesized complex data and global trends from finance, international culture, and elite sports performance into 
actionable knowledge products, strategically aligning content to build the distinct personal brand and authority of 
each executive for maximum market impact. 
 
Strategy and Communications Associate           
 
 
                                        February 2020–May 2022  
• 
Developed and delivered outreach and engagement strategy training, leveraging digital tools to enhance visibility and 
communication effectiveness for national CBOs and GiZ, promoting impactful social change and stakeholder 
engagement. 
• 
Developed and implemented the Outreach and Communication Strategy for Kashmir Premier League, boosting 
audience engagement by 30% through digital campaigns and stakeholder partnerships, enhancing brand visibility and 
positioning. 
 
Himat Consulting Private Limited          
 
 
 
 
 
                 Islamabad, Pakistan 
Policy and Strategy Development Consultant          
 
                                                      June 2024–January 2025  
Gender Process Evaluation of Early Education Projects for Reform Support Unit Sindh  
• 
Applied rigorous M&E frameworks to assess gender-responsive policies in the Sindh education system, providing 
actionable recommendations to enhance gender inclusivity for children, focusing on socio-emotional support and 
inclusivity for Grades 3–5. This included designing indicators, data collection tools, and conducting stakeholder 
consultations. 
• 
Provided detailed actionable recommendation for incorporation of gender analysis to enhance workplace 
improvements in alignment with project goals. Contributed actionable recommendations for scaling inclusive 
education practices and systems   
 
Labor Market Baseline Survey for Punjab and Sindh for GIZ Pakistan 
• 
Spearheaded the design and execution of a comprehensive survey, effectively aligning resources and managing 
stakeholder priorities. Delivered actionable insights to inform policy interventions aimed at workforce 
inclusivity and youth engagement. 
• 
Navigated complex project dynamics by proactively addressing logistical, analytical, and stakeholder-related 
challenges. Ensured seamless coordination between multidisciplinary teams and government entities, demonstrating 
resilience and adaptability in high-pressure environments. 
 
 
CERTIFICATIONS 
Data Analytics Bootcamp 
Ongoing 
Atom Camp Pakistan 
Impact Measurement & Management for the SDGs                                                                                         October 2023.  
University of Duke 
Social Impact Assessment                                                                                                                                           May 2023.  
The Inter-American Development Bank 
Project, Grant, and Event Management                                                                                                              October 2024.  
Hanns Seidel Foundation Pakistan 
 
 
 
LEADERSHIP                                                                                                                                                                         
Model Council of Common Interest 
                                                                                                               February 2024 
Hans Seidel Foundation - Pakistan 
• 
Winner of Policy Cohort among 4500 students from 50 universities across Pakistan 
• 
Formulated Inter-provincial coordination policy notes for Higher Education and Natural Resources 
 
Regional Connect - Pakistan, Bangladesh, Indonesia                                                                                              May 2022 
International Republican Institute 
• 
Presented Policy note for increased intra-regional Youth engagement to encourage political and social inclusion, 
amid low Human Development Index 
 
Emerging Leaders Academy - Punjab Cohort                                                                                                   February 2022 
International Republican Institute 
• 
Designed Political Engagement Policy Note for Women Inclusion into Local Government Institutions in lieu of the 
Constitution of Pakistan 
 
Youth Democratic Process National Caucus                                                                                                          June 2021 
Center of Research and Strategic Studies 
• 
Formulated Youth Empowerment & Political Engagement Policy 
• 
Policy excerpted into Sindh Student Union Bill 2022 
 
 
EDUCATION                                                                                                                            
 
QUAID E AZAM UNIVERSITY 
Islamabad, Pakistan 
Bachelors of Science 
2020-2024 
Majors in International Relations                                                                                                
    
Cumulative GPA: 3.8/4.0, Ranked 3rd highest in my degree program, Magna Cum Laude 
Thesis: Exploring International Political Economy of the Integrated Regional Labor Management Framework of South Asia 
 
HANNS SEIDEL FOUNDATION RESEARCH FELLOWSHIP                                                 May 2024–October 2024 
 
Research Project: Ensuring Human Security and Regional Economic Integration in South Asia, formulating a Regional 
Labour Management Policy 
• 
Recipient of Best Research Project 
• 
Presented Research Project to Senate Pakistan & German Embassy Islamabad officials 
 
 


--- COVER NOTE ---
I am writing to express my profound interest in the Fundraising and Partnerships Manager role at Taleemabad. As a Programme Management professional with five years of experience navigating the exact Islamabad based ecosystem you describe, working directly with the World Bank, government ministries, and multilateral partners, I am uniquely positioned to be the face of Taleemabad in the capital and turn your proven model into the committed capital it deserves.

My resume details a career built on designing and securing buy in for complex development projects. What I want to convey here is my readiness to step into your office on Day One and start operationalizing the strategy you have outlined. I have spent the last several years not just understanding the donor landscape, but physically operating within it, building the trust and relationships that translate into funding.

My tenure with the World Bank Group placed me at the very heart of Islamabad's development community. I have managed stakeholder engagement across government, industry, civil society, and academia for programs like the Reforms for a Brighter Future initiative, developing unified frameworks to drive consensus on key economic reforms. I am not a remote fundraiser. I am a local professional who knows how to walk into the offices of DFID, USAID, and the EU Delegation, because I have done it successfully.

I have managed projects valued from 36 million to over 1 billion dollars. My role in projects like the Sindh Flood Emergency Housing Reconstruction Project and the Karachi Water and Sewerage Services Improvement Project was to design the very frameworks, social safeguards, resettlement plans, and stakeholder engagement strategies, that donors like the World Bank require for funding approval. I understand the compliance, due diligence, and reporting requirements from the inside out. Knowing how to structure proposals to meet the rigorous standards of multilateral and bilateral funders makes me comfortable to take on the advertised role.

I have worked hand in hand with government institutions in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, Punjab, and Sindh, and have designed operational blueprints for national programs like the National Health Support Program. I understand the dynamics of the public sector and how to align innovative solutions with their priorities. You need someone who can translate a complex technical model into a compelling pitch. I have done this repeatedly. For the Second Karachi Water and Sewerage Services Improvement Project, I anchored the citizen engagement strategy by designing a data driven Customer Satisfaction Index survey that directly linked beneficiary feedback to service improvements for 19 million people. I can confidently walk into a boardroom and present Taleemabad's RCT results and cost efficiency data with the same level of conviction and analytical rigor.

Taleemabad is not pitching a pilot. It is scaling a proven solution. This resonates deeply with my own professional philosophy. I am eager to move beyond designing frameworks and instead apply my expertise to directly fuel the growth of an organization that is revolutionizing education in Pakistan. I am ready to be the relentless, proactive presence in Islamabad who ensures that every funder knows the power of Rumi.

Thank you for your time and consideration. I look forward to the possibility of discussing how I can contribute to Taleemabad's mission.

Sincerely,

Hamdan Ahmad

--- CUSTOM ANSWERS ---
{"1771234340593": {"answer": "While I was consulting working for HIMAT Consulting, I was presenting one of the evaluation done by the organization in which I participated as consultant to the Local Government Department and CLICK project (MDB financed) in Karachi. Due to my prior experience with CLICK and presentation focusing on actual object achievement, we were able to win the end line evaluation contract for the project. Similarly, for SHOR Branding, I was able to close a deal for Democrat Mayor Electoral campaign in Texas, United States. My understanding of the electoral system and dynamics combined with the quality campaign experience of the firm led to closing of this deal.", "question": "One example of a funding relationship you built or a deal you helped close, and what made it work"}}