=== App 1541 | Sani Muhammad | mhsani93@gmail.com | Islamabad ===

Sani H. Muhammad 
mhsani93@gmail.com ❖ (+92) 332-552-1974 ❖ Islamabad, PK ❖  https://www.linkedin.com/in/amihiredyet 
Sani is a certified tech professional turned Business leader with ±8 years of experience driving revenue growth across 
IT sectors namely, railroad, healthcare, retail, fintech, SaaS/PaaS/XaaS and cloud platforms in MENA and the U.S. With 
a strong foundation in product strategy, revops, pre-sales, PM, BA, and GTM execution., his expertise lies in 
transforming C-suite directives into worthy outcomes, making him a key asset capable of delivering significant value 
to any team. 
WORK EXPERIENCE 
 
ReBiz  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                               Cleveland, OH 
Project Manager → Chief of Staff  
 
  
 
 
                                       Sept 2024 – Present 
• 
Led cross-industry retail analytics projects using Zoho CRM, Salesforce Lightening, and Trello, streamlining multi-
unit client operations across 400+ locations; delivered workflows that unlocked ~$1M in annual cost savings.  
• 
Drove project delivery excellence across 8 industry verticals, monitoring progress, mitigating risks, and ensuring 
95%+ on-time completion while driving product ops towards AI trigger-readiness.  
• 
Designed and prepared customer reports, dashboards, and analyses (aligned with PRDs/BRDs) to drive faster 
decision-making for executive leadership, using LookerStudio and boosting client communication across C-Suite, 
partners, while increasing client retention by 20%. 
• 
Acted as insights lead and Chief of Staff, driving the acquisition of multiple F&B and HVAC businesses while 
ensuring financial accuracy. Spearheaded data outreach and cleansing to expand Health Express OccMed from 9 
to 13 branches across Ohio. Delivered recommendations that built client headcount and enabled data-driven 
decision-making, consistently boosting sales performance and profitability by 20%–55% across client networks. 
• 
Fostered collaboration across cross-functional teams (marketing, tech, ops), ensuring alignment on goals and 
resource allocation across verticals including i.e Health Express, ERP Hub, Yellow Lite, Rumi’s, SunHub, etc. 
• 
Directed end-to-end project lifecycles with CEO, and COO across verticals, achieving $3M+ incremental growth by 
improving KPI visibility, reducing churn risk, and aligning project execution with enterprise client goals. 
 
Zones, LLC 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                    Auburn, WA 
Manager, Cloud ISV GTM  
 
  
 
 
                                                   Aug 2022 – Sept 2024 
• 
Led cross-functional development of the Zones Cloud Platform atop CloudBlue Commerce to operationalize 
marketplace scalability, enable GTM readiness, and support enterprise pre-sales driving a 20% increase in ISV 
engagement, and an estimated $1.2M+ ARR uplift across cloud verticals.  
• 
Drove adoption of ISV Marketplace (SaaS Trials, Vendor Insights), boosting utilization by 15% and contributing to 
a $150K+ ARR increase, while providing technical enablement for ISV GTM offers, migrations, and feature 
rollouts. 
• 
Orchestrated service plans for ISVs, CSPs, and resellers—from staging to production—covering pricing models, 
SKUs, billing terms, and subscription periods, while partnering with PDMs and TAMs from Microsoft, Apple, Cisco, 
Adobe, and Ingram Micro et al. to ensure technical readiness and maximize operational ROI across the ISV 
marketplace. 
• 
Proactively configured EDPs and SKUs in CloudBlue for PLM and non-PLM products while maintaining SoT 
weekly within the D365 AX environment, including feature requests, tracking backlogs, and lifecycle management 
of cloud solutions (IaaS, PaaS, SaaS) across multi-cloud environments.  
• 
Drove Service Plan development with pricing, messaging, T&Cs, notifications to enhance offer clarity and buyer 
readiness across ZCP. Assisted with (UAT), improving compliance and reducing service inquiries by 10%, which 
helped protect $100K+ in ARR through better customer retention and clarity. 
• 
Audited 5,000+ Product Price Records (PPRs) monthly via BOM tool, each containing thousands of product 
updates to ensure pricing integration of products across ZCP (STG→PRD) staging and production environments 
thus reducing pricing errors by 30%. 
Orbispay  
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                        New York City, NY 
Sr. Analyst, Technical Business Development 
 
 
 
                                   July 2021 – Aug 2022 
• 
Led technical discussions with C-suite prospects, articulating EWA SaaS solutions within Fintech environments, 
while mentoring team members to qualify high-fit ICPs leveraging ZoomInfo, improving ICP match rate by 25%. 
• 
Exceeded Q1 2022 quota by 160% by driving C-suite technical discussions, mentoring SDRs, and refining LATAM 
outreach while boosting ICP match by30%. Leveraged Salesforce, SalesLoft, and LinkedIn Navigator to model best 
practices, and cadences using HubSpot Suite securing 10+ qualified meetings/month with 12–15% reply rates. 
• 
Drove partnerships by targeting enterprise and mid-market verticals, using Cognism and ZoomInfo to qualify 
~500 leads weekly. Negotiated deals that lifted contract value by ACV by 10% and slashed churn while 
maintaining an efficient CAC of $250; highlight being onboarding Kellogg’s with 8000+ headcount. 
 
Repstack 
                                                                                                                                                     Wilmington, DE 
Sr. Analyst, Virtual Business  
 
                                                                                                       Jan 2021 – July 2022 
• 
Conducted detailed competitor analysis and led BRD/PRD and stakeholder alignment across Amazon, Facebook, 
LinkedIn, and Salesforce CPQ ensuring 100% on-time delivery of initiatives and cutting proposal turnaround by 
25%. 
• 
Optimized GHL funnels, workflows, and Salesforce CPQ dashboards, driving a 20% lift in conversions and 
revenue, while instituting weekly stakeholder reviews and exec reports that cut misalignment 50% and secured 
long-term client retention with partners like Seven Figure Agency. 
• 
Translated BRDs into revenue-driving solutions by collaborating daily with business owners and cross-functional 
teams to design cross-platform dashboards and KPI frameworks, boosting efficiency and customer adoption. 
Motive (Formerly KeepTruckin)                                                                                                            San Francisco, CA 
Analyst, OM RevOps & Deal Strategy 
                                                                                             Dec 2018 – Sept 2020 
Specialist, Order Management                                                                                                                         Aug 2018 – Dec 2018      
 
• 
Effectuated time-sensitive new-logo, upsell, and renewal contracts totaling ±$2M in ARR for all US and PK Sales 
and CS teams in the VSB, SMB/VSMB, and mid-market segments, ensuring revenue growth and client retention. 
• 
Led a new pricing and contract initiative with US Legal, launching an automated model for POs, vendor 
management, and procurement. Reduced manual workload by 10+ hours/month, cut deal delays by 7%, and 
supported faster onboarding of 15+ vendors, accelerating time-to-revenue across key operations. 
• 
Established core OM SOPs and trained teams on Zuora processing, contract buyouts, and Salesforce Pardot 
campaigns, thus boosting operational efficiency and reducing billing errors by 20% across 100k+ active subs, 
contributing to $150K+ in recovered revenue and improved campaign ROI. 
• 
Individually trained 20+ new hires to expand PK-based support, decreasing OM resolution time, achieving a KPIs 
and CSAT of 4.97/5.00, and owning VF strategy while driving quota attainment across diverse sales teams i.e PK, 
US-Spanish, and Mexico/LATAM. 
 
Managed complete Quote-Cash life cycle via Salesforce lightening, CPQ and Zoura with daily workflow included; 
− 
 Order Creation, Completion, Account Mergers, and Churns 
− 
 Maintaining C-Suite approvals, inventory count, Deal Strategy, Order Forms, Account and Subscription 
Renewals 
− 
 Order Logistics & Fulfillment - UPS Related Tasks/Retail/PFJ/Ebay/Shopify. 
− 
 Contract Buyout Quotes & Sending Out Replacement Orders, RMA/RGA processing 
− 
 Opportunity Stage Amendments and Financial/Operational Reporting 
− 
 Subscription Consolidation, Reconciliations, Audit and Upgrade/Downgrade (Refunds/Credits/Chargeback) 
− 
 Vendor Financing deals and maintaining regulatory need & compliance 
EDUCATION 
 
Bachelor of Science - STEM | Cum Laude Minor – Business Management & IT          
Hospitality and Business Education College, Sankt Gallen                                                                                    Lindau, Switzerland 
Bachelor of Science | Transferred – Accounting & Finance         
FAST School of Management, FAST-NUCES, ICT                                                                                                   Islamabad, Pakistan  
High School Diploma | A&B Honor Roll – Sciences       
Kestrel Heights Charter School                                                                                                                            Durham, North Carolina 
       CERTIFICATIONS & TOOLS 
 
❖ Certifications: 6x CISA Certified (Spyware, IT, Clean Desk, et al.) ZoomInfo Certified, McKinsey Super 
Learner, HubSpot Certified Udemy Python, ESL by NCSHLA, Developing on Polka Dot and Zcash,  
❖ Tools: Salesforce Lightening/CPQ, Zoho Suite, HubSpot Suite, Service Now, Power BI, Dynamics AX, D365 
F&O, Google Workspace, Adobe Suite,  MS Office Suite, Zoura, PeachTree, QuickBooks, NetSuite, Clover, Toast, 
Uizard AI, Meshroom, CSP & NCE, MPC, GCP, Cloud Blue Commerce, Atlassian, JIRA, Sales Loft, Mixpanel, PSA,  
GHL, Vaeem, Skykick, TCP/IP, DNS, VLAN, Zapier, GMass for Gmail, LastPass Vault, Mailbox Power, Snovio, 
Tableau, Looker & Google Data Studio. 
❖ Web Technologies: CSS, HTML, WordPress, JavaScript, TS, Python (Pandas, NumPy), R (on-going) 
❖ Software Project Development Methodologies: Waterfall, Agile, Scrum 
 


--- COVER NOTE ---
Dear Ayesha and Aymen, Asalam Alykum and Ramadan Kareem!

I'm super excited to apply for Fundraising & Partnerships Manager position at Taleemabad. With extensive experience building and managing partnerships across global markets i.e US, MENA, AU/NZ, and studying personally in the US to Switzerland, I bring both strategic relationship-building expertise and a deep personal commitment to the mission of expanding access to quality education.

Over the years, I have led cross-border partnerships have worked locally with Waleed from MIUC and Roots fraternity, developed revenue-generating collaborations, and worked closely with diverse stakeholders including corporate partners, institutions, and impact-driven organizations. My approach combines strategic fundraising with long-term ecosystem building, ensuring partnerships are not only financially valuable but also mission-aligned and sustainable.

Education has always been close to my heart. Coming from a family rooted in academia and public service, I have grown up understanding both the structural challenges and transformative power of education. Taleemabad’s mission resonates deeply with me, not just professionally but personally. Contributing to an e-learning platform that is shaping the future of accessible education would be more than a role for me, it would be a responsibility and a passion.

I am particularly excited about leveraging my international partnership experience to expand Taleemabad’s fundraising pipeline, as my Taya abbu is running Taleem Foundation since 1983 as he's a retired federal secretary from DMG and has raised more than 400+ schools within PK so far, so that experience could also come in handy.  

PS. I'd be open to part time, even if the compensation ask is too high. Just want to do something impactful in education sphere within PK. 

--- CUSTOM ANSWERS ---
{"1771234340593": {"answer": "At Orbis Pay, I built and closed a $50,000 partnership with Kellogg's by aligning their CSR objectives with our financial inclusion EWA model and structuring a co-branded initiative tied to measurable impact KPIs.\n\nThe deal worked because I secured cross-functional buy-in early, my outreach was super bespoke as per the ICP was aligned on our value props and clearly demonstrated ROI, and positioned it as a shared impact partnership rather than a one-off sponsorship. ", "question": "One example of a funding relationship you built or a deal you helped close, and what made it work"}}