=== App 1702 | Asim Ur Rehman | Asimrehman720@gmail.com | Peshawar ===

Education
About Me
Bachelor Of Sociology
University Of Peshawar
Arts And Humanities 
Arts And Humanities 
Government College Peshawar
Junior Cambridge Public School
2020 - 2024
2018-2020
2016-2018
Motivated and responsible recent
graduate with a passion for
community service and social
impact. Strong organizational,
teamwork, and communication
skills, eager to contribute and learn
in professional environments.
asimrehman720@gmail
+92 3359598146
Village And Post Office,
Mian Gujar, Dalazak
Road,Peshawar
Teamwork & Collaboration
Adaptability & Flexibility
Leadership & Initiative
Administrative Support
Event Planning & Coordination
Volunteer Management &
Record Keeping
Skills
Language
Pashto
Urdu
English
S o c i a l  W o r k e r
Asim
Rehman
Experience
Rehman Foundation
Peshawar - Pakistan
Social Mobilizer
2022 - 2024
Motivated recent graduate with hands on experience supporting
nonprofit operations, including administrative coordination, volunteer
management, and event logistics. Contributed to fundraising
initiatives, disaster relief efforts, and community support programs
such as food drives and clothing distribution. Assisted in organizing
educational awareness sessions and free medical camps for
underprivileged communities. Committed to social impact, teamwork,
and effective organizational support.
Initiative For Development And
Empowerment Axis ( IDEAs )
Peshawar - Pakistan
Volunteer
2021 - 2022
Recent graduate with practical experience in nonprofit and
community service, managing social media, budgets, and team
coordination. Skilled in organizing programs, disaster relief efforts, and
administrative support to optimize operations. Experienced in
documenting, researching, and resolving issues while enhancing
community engagement. Committed to teamwork, adaptability, and
delivering impactful social initiatives.
References
+92 3329083785
+923328131705
Toheedurrehman79@gmail.com
abbas98@uop.edu.pk
Toheed Ur Rehman
Muhammad Abbas
Phone: 
Phone: 
Email :
Email :
 CEO Of Rehman Foundation
MEAL Officer AT IDEAs
Independent Volunteer – COVID-19
Community Support
2021 - 2022
Personally initiated and led fundraising efforts with friends,
collecting funds and essential supplies from local donors during
the lockdown.
Independently distributed food, medicine, and basic necessities to
families affected by the pandemic.
Organized community support efforts on your own, demonstrating
leadership, initiative, and social responsibility.
Awards
Student Liberty
Appreciation Certificate


--- CUSTOM ANSWERS ---
{"1771234340593": {"answer": "During the COVID-19 lockdown, I collaborated with a friend to raise funds for underprivileged families. We reached out to local community members and small business owners to request donations. One donor was initially hesitant, so I took time to explain how the funds would be used, shared a clear plan for distribution, and kept them updated throughout the process. This transparency built trust, and they not only contributed but also encouraged others to donate. The effort successfully raised enough funds to provide food and essential supplies to dozens of families. I think it worked because we communicated clearly, built trust, and showed genuine commitment to the cause.", "question": "One example of a funding relationship you built or a deal you helped close, and what made it work"}}