=== App 1769 | Mushahid Hussain | Mushahid.qau514@gmail.com | Islamabad ===

MUSHAHID HUSSAIN - Development Sector Professional 
Islamabad.| +923028258060| Mushahid.qau514@gmail.com | https://www.linkedin.com/in/mushahid-hussain-837717252 
Career Summary 
Development professional with 4+ years of experience in multi-sectoral programming across education, WASH, 
livelihoods, and emergency response within vulnerable and underserved communities in Pakistan. Proven expertise 
in aligning humanitarian interventions with long-term resilience and socio-economic inclusion strategies. Strong 
background in development partnership engagement, donor coordination, results-based management, and data-
driven planning. Experienced in conducting needs assessments, supporting multi-year strategies, and facilitating 
collaboration between field teams, donors, and government stakeholders. Demonstrates sound understanding of 
fragile contexts, governance dynamics, and sustainable development systems strengthening. 
 
Skills & Abilities 
Partnerships development 
 
 
 
 
Strategic communications and impact reporting 
Data & Document management 
 
 
 
Work plan development 
Coordination & Stakeholder Liaison 
 
 
 
Capacity building and trainings 
Donor engagement and fund raising  
 
 
Due diligence and compliance 
Project Cycle Management 
 
 
 
 
Microsoft Office 365 
Budgeting & Financial proposals 
 
 
 
Results-Based Management (RBM. 
Log frame tracking  
 
 
 
 
Scope, time, and budget control 
 
Professional Experience 
DONOR REPORTING OFFICER | READ FOUNDATION | FEB 2024 - CURRENT 
 
Led development and implementation of resilience-focused education and WASH interventions in 
vulnerable communities, integrating protection-sensitive approaches and aligning programming with 
broader socio-economic inclusion objectives. 
 
Developed strategic donor reports incorporating Results-Based Management frameworks, outcome 
indicators, and data analysis to support evidence-based programming and partnership strengthening. 
 
Coordinate with program, finance, procurement, and field teams to collect inputs and ensure alignment with 
approved proposals, budgets, and donor requirements. 
 
Prepare and review high-quality donor narrative and financial reports, ensuring completeness, accuracy, and 
compliance with donor formats and timelines. 
 
Maintain grants documentation systems, reporting trackers, donor communication records, and submission 
calendars. 
 
Assist in budget monitoring and spending reviews with finance and program teams; flag variances and 
support corrective planning. 
 
Support project cycle processes including work planning, procurement planning, and reporting schedules. 
 
Compile annexes, supporting documents, and compliance materials required for donor submissions. 
 
Develop concept notes, proposals, budgets, and log frames contributing to a USD 600K+ funding pipeline. 
 
Prepare donor briefs, impact summaries, and visibility materials. 
Key Achievement: Strengthened project delivery and donor communication systems that helped mobilize USD 
600K+ in funding. 
 
 
 
 
2 
 
 
PROGRAM OFFICER DONOR LIAISON | HASHOO FOUNDATION | DEC 2021 – FEB 2024 
 
Ensured successful implementation of 19 donor-funded projects in education, livelihoods, governance, and 
youth employment in coordination with programme and operations teams. 
 
Maintained active stakeholder engagement with donors, implementing partners, and community-level 
actors to support inclusive economic development initiatives. 
 
Drafted project proposals, concept notes, logical frameworks, and budgets for climate-resilient livelihoods 
and community development programmes. 
 
Supported donor reporting, project tracking, and data consolidation, contributing to timely and accurate 
programme updates. 
 
Assisted business development efforts through opportunity screening and partnership engagement. 
 
Key Achievement: Streamlined donor communication and administrative coordination, improving programme 
implementation and reporting efficiency. 
. 
Educational qualification 
Master in Business Administration | March 2023 | National University of Modern Languages Islamabad 
 
Major: Green Supply chain management,  Project management, Strategic management 
 
Minor: Data analysis, Contemporary issues in business 
Bachelor of Science in Business Administration | June 2019 | Quaid-i-Azam University Islamabad. 
 
Major: Entrepreneurship, Marketing management, Business communication, Sales management 
 
Minor: Budgeting, Career management, financial management, Business statistics, Strategic Human resource 
management. 
CERTIFICATIONS AND COURSES 
 
2- Days training on “Strategic Program Planning” organized by Community World Service Asia. 
 
5 days training on “Planning and management of Development projects” by AHK- National Center for 
Rural Development, Govt. of Pakistan. 
 
The essentials of Supply Chain management” authorized by, Coursera, KAIST (December 2019) 
 
Impact Evaluation methods overview by USAID (KAYA) 
 
Volunteer certificates from Oxford University Press, Hunar tech Pvt. limited and integrity Pakistan. 
 
References  
 Mr. Muhammad Adeel Qaiser, General Manager Institutional fund raising Division  
READ Foundation 
Contact details available on demand. 


--- COVER NOTE ---
Dear hiring manager
I am writing to express my interest in the Islamabad-based fundraising and partnerships role at Taleemabad. With over four years of experience in donor relations, proposal development, and institutional engagement within Pakistan’s development sector, I see a strong alignment between my professional trajectory and Taleemabad’s mission to scale evidence-based education reform.

In my current role as Donor Relations Officer at READ Foundation, I manage institutional relationships, develop proposals, coordinate cross-functional teams, and support project implementation across education and community-based initiatives. I have contributed to securing and managing funding portfolios exceeding USD 600,000, working closely with international donors, local partners, and field teams. My responsibilities require pipeline development, grant tracking, compliance navigation, reporting, and continuous engagement with stakeholders, skills directly relevant to building and managing an active funding pipeline for Taleemabad.

I understand Pakistan’s donor landscape and the operational differences between bilateral agencies, multilateral institutions, corporate CSR programs, and private foundations. I am comfortable preparing tailored concept notes, responding to competitive calls, and translating programmatic impact into compelling funding narratives. My MBA in Supply Chain Management further strengthens my analytical thinking, structured planning, and disciplined follow-up processes,  all critical for managing 30–50 live opportunities and converting relationships into commitments.

What particularly draws me to Taleemabad is its focus on scalable, cost-effective, evidence-backed solutions. An AI-powered coaching model delivering measurable learning gains at a fraction of traditional costs represents exactly the type of systemic innovation Pakistan’s education sector requires. I am motivated by initiatives that move beyond pilots and into government-level scale, and I would value the opportunity to contribute to turning demonstrated impact into sustained funding partnerships.

Being based in Islamabad allows me to engage directly with embassies, multilateral offices, ministries, and visiting delegations. I am comfortable representing organizations in formal donor meetings, policy events, and field visits, and I bring the discipline to build relationships that compound over time rather than operate transactionally.

I would welcome the opportunity to further discuss how my experience in institutional fundraising and development partnerships can contribute to Taleemabad’s next phase of growth.

Sincerely,
Mushahid Hussain

--- CUSTOM ANSWERS ---
{"1771234340593": {"answer": "Throughout my professional experience, I have consistently cultivated and strengthened relationships with funding partners that evolved into long-term institutional collaborations. These engagements not only secured sustained financial support but also helped establish structured funding channels that enabled the successful initiation and implementation of community development projects.\n\nOne achievement I take particular pride in is conceptualizing and pitching a strategic initiative to transform selected READ Foundation schools into Community Skill Development Centers. The objective was to optimize existing infrastructure to deliver market-relevant vocational and technical skills to underprivileged youth in marginalized communities, thereby promoting livelihood enhancement and economic inclusion.\n\nThe concept note and strategic pitch were well received by senior management for its sustainability focus, scalability potential, and alignment with community needs. Following internal endorsement, groundwork has begun to develop a comprehensive proposal for presentation to institutional partners and donors for potential funding and implementation.\n\nThis experience reflects my ability to identify strategic programmatic opportunities, align them with organizational priorities, and translate ideas into fundable initiatives through structured stakeholder engagement and proposal development.", "question": "One example of a funding relationship you built or a deal you helped close, and what made it work"}}