=== App 1875 | Samreen Durrani | samreen.durrani9@gmail.com | Islamabad ===

+92 321 4167017 | samreen.durrani9@gmail.com | linkedin.com/
in/samreen-durrani-2a710b150
EDUCATION
M Phil Economics Lahore University of Management Sciences
(LUMS), 2018–2020
BSc Economics Kinnaird College for Women, 2012–2016
EXPERIENCE
NCSU, Ministry of Information and Broadcasting |
Content Developer Economy |Feb 2025 – Present
Conducted political economy research to analyze governance and
institutional dynamics on fiscal reform
Developed data driven narrative frameworks to communicate
complex policy reforms
Produced policy briefs combining econometric data with discourse
analysis on public perception
Led collaborations with international agencies to align reform
messaging with governance objectives
Conducted Focus group discussions, dipsticks and weekly pulse
survey on online community
Created nation-wide survey
Worked on the government narrative for DAVOS 2026
University of Central Punjab |Visting Lecturer Urban
Economics |Sept 2024 – Feb 2025
Developed, designed and implemented the course for the 8th
semester students.
One Network |Operations Executive to CEO |Oct 2022
– Feb 2023
Operational Coordination for CEO for all of M-tag operations
throughout Pakistan
Coordination and planning for the C-suite
Startup Business Bureau| Operations Manager |Jan
2022 – Oct 2022
Organized and managed the inaugural PAK-US Treaty Seminar in
Islamabad and Lahore.
Launched multiple projects such as The Cleanables in the Virginia
(US) market and Acquisitions for the company
Oversaw financial planning, marketing, and operations.
Led cross-functional teams in Pakistan and the US to drive two new
business launches.
The Pasticceria SSF Foundation| Operations Manager
|Aug 2021 – Feb 2022
Established the patisserie’s operations and business development
from inception.
Managed key accounts including Al Fatah, Seven Grocers, and The
Merchant.
Partnered with Foodpanda, Bykea, and Cheetay to optimize delivery
logistics.
The Little Munchery |Owner |Feb 2019 – Aug 2021
Oversaw restaurant operations, digital marketing, and supply chain
management.
University of Management and Technology |Research
Associate| Feb 2018 – Sept 2018
Supported proposal and grant development for academic research
projects.
Conducted data collection and statistical analysis using STATA and
Excel.
Skill Gear | Assistant Business Development Manager
|Jan 2017 – Jan 2020
Conducted brand image analysis and provided strategic
recommendations to align public perception with corporate
identity.
SKILLS
Technical Tools: STATA, EViews, Microsoft Office, Synthesio,
Meltwater, Hootsuite
Primary research: Online surveys, FGDS, Survey briefs, Social Media
Listening
Professional Skills: Operations Management, Strategic Planning,
Research Writing, Social Media Marketing.
AWARDS & ACHIEVEMENTS
Employee of the Month: Startup Business Bureau (July 2022) |
LUMS Merit Scholarship


--- COVER NOTE ---
With my background in Economic research, entrepreneurship and operations management I believe I have the right skill set required for this job. 

--- CUSTOM ANSWERS ---
{"1771234340593": {"answer": "At the Startup Business Bureau, I led the development of a partnership with a US based impact investor to support the launch of The Cleanables in Virginia. There was no existing pipeline, so I created one by identifying aligned investors, initiating outreach and presenting a clear analysis of market potential, cost structure and operational feasibility.\n\nOver several weeks, I stayed in consistent communication, responded to concerns about cross border operations and shared weekly progress updates. I focused on building confidence first, not securing an immediate commitment.\n\nThe investor funded the project because they trusted our transparency, our responsiveness and the strength of our business case. What made this relationship work was patience, credibility and delivering value before making a request. These are the same dynamics needed for fundraising in markets where attention and trust must be earned.", "question": "One example of a funding relationship you built or a deal you helped close, and what made it work"}}