=== App 1961 | Hira Noureen Khan | hiramomina@gmail.com | Rawalpindi ===

Nonprofit Resource Mobilization
Project Planning & Management
Community Development &
Stakeholder Engagement
Community Psychosocial Support
 
Capacity Building & Training
Facilitation
Strategic Content Writing &
Impact Storytelling
Public Speaking & Advocacy
Manager Public Relations and Resource
Development, & Diabetes Advocate
Administrator & Psychotherapist
Senior Pharma Associate 
Senior Medical Delegate
Territory Manager 
Hypnosis Master Practitioner SMI, Australia
NLP Master Practitioner ABNLP, RSIN
HTP & Beck Depression inventory
Modern Hypnosis SMI, Australia
Cognitive Behavior Therapy
Dialectal Behavior Therapy
Professional Detailing Skills
Academic English writing 
Good Clinical Practice
First Aid Mental Health
Hypnosis Master Practitioner SMI, Australia
NLP Master Practitioner ABNLP, RSIN
HTP & Beck Depression inventory
Modern Hypnosis SMI, Australia
Cognitive Behavior Therapy
Dialectal Behavior Therapy
Professional Detailing Skills
Academic English writing 
Good Clinical Practice
First Aid Mental Health
HIRA NOUREEN KHAN
Clinical Psychologist, NLP & Hypnosis Practitioner,
Diabetes Advocate, and T1D Community champion.
(Living with type 1 diabetes.)
Forward-thinking leader dedicated to fostering a culture of innovation
and continuous learning. I specialize in transforming complex challenges
into strategic growth opportunities by empowering teams and
streamlining processes. Seeking to bring a blend of technical expertise
and visionary leadership to a dynamic organization that values
professional evolution and measurable impact.
Certifications
Experience
Education:
M.Sc. Applied Psychology
(Major Clinical Psychology)
Virtual University of Pakistan, Lahore, Pk.
PGD Applied Psychology
Virtual University of Pakistan, Lahore, Pk.
Bachelor of Sciences
(Botany, Chemistry & Zoology)
The University of Punjab, Lahore, Pk.
Skills
Achievements
hiramomina@gmail.com
H # B-IV-874/M-9, Sohan Colony,
Muslim Town, Rawalpindi, Pakistan
+92-03345240757
Attended NCDA Global Forum, Kigali - 2025
Annual Conference Nestle, UAE - 2012
Annual Conference Nestle, Malaysia - 2011
Annual Conference Nestle, Thailand - 2010
Annual Conference Abbott, Thailand - 2009
International Conferences Attended
Best Presenter Award
Best Detailer Award
Best Knowledge Award
Super User of Team
Contact Info
Meethi Zindagi, Pakistan
Curelink Healthcare, Pakistan
 
Sanofi, Pakistan
Nestle, Pakistan
Abbott, Pakistan
October 2022 - Present
August 2017 - April 2022 
July 2012 - October 2016 
July 2008 - June 2012 
July 2007 - June 2008


--- COVER NOTE ---
I am drawn to this role because it sits at the intersection of three things that define my professional work: systems change, evidence-backed social impact, and building funding relationships where none previously exist.
Over the past several years, I have led fundraising and strategic partnerships for large-scale social impact programs supporting children and young people living with type 1 diabetes in Pakistan — a space, much like education, where the challenge is not ambition but sustainable delivery at scale. My work has required engaging international foundations, corporate partners, healthcare institutions, and global advocacy networks to mobilize resources for life-saving interventions in a context that is often underrepresented in global funding conversations.
A significant part of my role has been market creation rather than opportunity response. Many funders were unfamiliar with Pakistan’s type 1 diabetes burden, requiring sustained relationship building, repeated engagement, and credibility development long before funding discussions began. I built partnership pipelines from scratch, positioned programs within donor priorities, and translated complex service delivery models into compelling investment cases aligned with global health and equity outcomes.
What resonates deeply with me about Taleemabad is that you are not proposing another pilot — you are scaling a proven, cost-effective solution already validated by governments and evidence. The challenge now is narrative positioning and capital alignment: ensuring global funders recognize this as a systems-level investment rather than a localized education project. That is precisely the kind of work I thrive in.
My approach to fundraising is relationship-first and intelligence-driven. I focus on understanding institutional motivations, contributing value early, and building long-term partnerships grounded in trust rather than transactional asks. Alongside partnership development, I bring experience managing donor pipelines, developing tailored proposals and strategic briefs, and supporting leadership teams with funding landscape insights that inform organizational positioning.
Taleemabad’s ambition to place AI-enabled coaching at the center of public education reform represents the kind of scalable innovation global philanthropy increasingly seeks but rarely finds with credible implementation pathways. I would be excited to help translate this momentum into sustained international partnerships and committed capital.
I look forward to the opportunity to contribute to expanding Taleemabad’s global funding ecosystem and ensuring this model reaches the scale its impact warrants.

--- CUSTOM ANSWERS ---
{"1771234340593": {"answer": "One of my most impactful fundraising achievements was developing and converting a USA-based Pakistani donor network into long-term supporters of our Type 1 diabetes program, which supports underprivileged children in Pakistan.\n\nDuring Ramadan 2025, I strategically engaged with Pakistani diaspora donors in the United States through personalised storytelling, impact communication, and trust-based relationship-building rather than making one-time donation requests. The approach focused on demonstrating transparency, measurable outcomes, and religious alignment with Ramadan, giving values such as Zakat and Sadaqah.\n\nKey actions included:\n\n1. Building direct relationships with community representatives and family philanthropists.\n2. Sharing real beneficiary stories showing insulin access impact.\n3. Conducting virtual engagement sessions aligned with Ramadan giving moments.\n4. Positioning child sponsorship as a sustained impact opportunity rather than a short-term charity.\n\nAs a result of consistent stewardship and follow-up engagement throughout the year, these relationships successfully converted into a Ramadan 2026 fundraising campaign, generating USD 70,000 to support life-saving insulin and diabetes care for children living with Type 1 diabetes.\n\nWhat made it work:\n\n1. Relationship-first fundraising approach\n2. Cultural and faith-aligned donor messaging\n3. Continuous donor engagement and reporting\n4. Clear demonstration of impact and accountability\n5. Transition from transactional giving to long-term partnership\n\nThis initiative not only secured significant funding but also established a sustainable international donor pipeline for future programs.", "question": "One example of a funding relationship you built or a deal you helped close, and what made it work"}}