=== App 1991 | Bilal Muhammad Sajid | bilal.sajidk214@gmail.com | Islamabad ===

Bilal Muhammad Sajid
Education
Lahore University of Management Sciences  - BSc (Honours) Management Sciences                                                               
Sep 2022 - May 2026 
Relevant courses: Computer and Problem solving, Principles of Marketing, Data Structures, Operations Management, Media Writing,
Decision Analysis, Data Analytics for New Product Development, Qual and Quant Research Methods
(+92) 3315230158
linkedin.com/in/Bilal-Sajid
Bilal.sajidk214@gmail.com
Experience 
RADWI - Sales and Marketing Associate                                                      
Jun 2024 – Mar 2025
Led B2B outreach efforts, securing meetings with SMEs such as MachaDev and Khas industries for potential collaborations, resulting
in joint revenue of Pkr 0.1 million+.
Revamped RADWI’s LinkedIn presence, implementing a strategic content plan that resulted in a 387.2% surge in impressions and
710% increase in reactions.
Assisted in setting up the company’s Upwork profile, leading to the acquisition of 2 initial clients resulting in a total revenue of Pkr
0.15 million+
Spearheaded marketing & content initiatives, contributing to high-impact Daraz campaigns with 50k+ impressions and launching
the company’s first ever SEO-optimized blog to enhance organic reach.
Dari Mooch - Marketing Intern                                                                     
Jun 2023 – Aug 2023
Honours and Awards
Duke of Edinburgh's award (Gold Standard) – First ever in the college to do so                             
Certificate of Excellence and Gold Medal for securing straight As in A’ Levels.
Certificate of Excellence and Gold Medal for securing straight As in O’ Levels.
Best Fall recruit of the year (AIESEC)
Skills and Interests
Skills: Excel, Python, C++, C, VBA, R, Canva, Content Writing                        
Interests: Football, Tennis, Swimming, Travelling, Horse Riding
Conducted A/B testing for emails resulting in a significant increase in click-through rate by 15% and engagement rate by 20%
compared to the previous quarter.
Collected and analyzed data for competitor and SWOT analysis in media and marketing, identifying benchmarks and differentiating
factors, providing valuable insights for decision-making and strategy development.
Managed Shopify store, including editing 50+ products, improved listings with SEO optimized words, and enhanced visualizations to
ensure a seamless shopping experience.
Contributed creative ideas such as introducing loyalty programs and cashback systems for customer retention strategies, resulting in
18% improvements in repeat purchases.
Leadership and Extra-curriculars
AIESEC in LUMS - Director Corporate communications                                                         
Oct 2022 - Feb 2025
Drove revenue generation, exceeding targets (Pkr 1.1 million) through strategic partnerships and onboarding key stakeholders like
BusCaro, Sarmayacar etc while working with the National Team for Business Development.
Helped organize an impactful Art event (Funkari’23), securing PKR 0.7 million in sponsorships including the onboarding of 5
influential guest speakers, 10 workshop providers, and 3000+ Participants, promoting local art and ultimately earning the title of the
best AIESEC event of the year.
Led a delegation of 18 participants at the National Youth Development Summit (NYDS), ensuring seamless coordination with the
National AIESEC committee for a successful conference.
Led a dynamic three-member team, securing impactful in-kind partnerships for a fall induction event and a notable monetary
partnership of Pkr 50k with Swag Kicks
Certifications (Coursera)
Python for Everybody (Getting started with Python)
Python Data Structures
Foundations: Data, Data, Everywhere
Create Charts and Dashboards Using Microsoft Excel
Adam Smith International - Project Management Intern (SEED)                                                      
July 2025 – Aug 2025
Designed a standardized Business Process Manual, streamlining a UK-FCDO funded £37.5M Sustainable Energy & Economic
Development (SEED) Programme’s 100 page framework into a scalable reference adopted across multiple ASI projects
Mapped 50+ key stakeholders across public, private, and donor sectors using visualization and CRM tools to enhance coordination
and reporting efficiency
Consolidated and analyzed sustainability data from ASI’s 20+ international offices, contributing to the firm’s global carbon reporting
framework and ESG compliance submissions
Reviewed and reconciled 30+ project deliverables against KPIs and timelines through Excel based dashboards, strengthening
progress tracking and data accuracy


--- COVER NOTE ---
Dear HR,
I am writing to apply for the Impact & Policy role at Taleemabad. As a final year Management Sciences student at LUMS, my academic and professional experiences have focused on data driven Decision Making and structured research.

I have worked on skills that align closely with the role’s emphasis on rigorous data analysis and policy relevant evidence.

Through my Directed Research Project, I developed a quantitative framework to project global AI development trajectories under different Shared Socioeconomic Pathways, constructing an index using macroeconomic and institutional indicators and applying regression based analysis. This experience strengthened my ability to work with datasets, structure analytical frameworks, and communicate findings clearly.

In addition to that, I also gained exposure to monitoring and data driven reporting during my internship at Adam Smith International, where I supported the UK-FCDO funded SEED programme by reconciling project deliverables against KPIs and contributing to global carbon reporting by consolidating sustainability data from 20+ international offices. The role required careful data organization, verification, and structured reporting—skills directly relevant to maintaining clean datasets and producing credible outputs. 

I am particularly drawn to Taleemabad’s focus on building evidence-backed solutions that governments can scale. The opportunity to contribute to research that directly informs education policy and program design in Pakistan would be both meaningful and professionally rewarding. 

Thank you for your time and consideration. I have attached my resume for your reference and would welcome the opportunity to discuss my application further. 
Best regards,
 Bilal Muhammad Sajid

--- CUSTOM ANSWERS ---
{"1771234340593": {"answer": "I secured a monetary client for AIESEC’s recruitment event during the outreach phase. I worked closely with the team to ensure the client’s objectives were effectively fulfilled during the event. The collaboration proved fruitful, as we were able to provide them with significant reach while the funding contributed to successfully financing the event.", "question": "One example of a funding relationship you built or a deal you helped close, and what made it work"}}