MAHAM AIZAZ
ma232@rice.edu ⋄Houston, TX, USA ⋄www.linkedin.com/in/maham-aizaz
EDUCATION
Master’s of Computational and Applied Mathematics
Aug 2024 - May 2026
Rice University
Houston, Texas, United States
BS in Mathematics
Sept 2018 - May 2022
Lahore University of Management Sciences (LUMS)
Lahore, Punjab, Pakistan
Relevant courses: Critical Debates in Education, Philosophy of Education
AWARDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS
• Recipient of Fulbright Scholarship offered by United States Educational Foundation Pakistan, for pursuing a
Master’s degree in the United States
Aug 2024 - April 2026
EXPERIENCE
Subject Specialist Mathematics
April 2024 - Aug 2024
Taleemabad
Islamabad, Pakistan
• Worked on a variety of projects in this educational organization, including script writing for educational videos,
specifically for the learning of out of school children in Pakistan.
• Also worked on writing creative lesson plans, for teachers in government schools to implement in their classrooms.
• Worked on compiling a teacher training program in Mathematics, specifically for teachers in government schools,
Teaching Fellow
July 2022 - May 2022
Teach for Pakistan
Islamabad, Pakistan
• Worked as a science teacher in an under resourced government high school. My main focus was to work on the
numeracy and literacy skills of my students, bridge the learning gap in my classrooms, motivate my students
to excel in their academic and professional life, and prepare them to become future change makers of their
communities.
Summer Internship
July 2023 - Aug 2023
Department of Mathematics, LUMS
Lahore, Punjab, Pakistan
• Interned as a mathematics instructor for grade 7 students, at the Syedanwala School System, a project of Syed
Babar Ali. Located in a rural area in district Kasur, this school aims to empower its students to pursue the
best possible education despite their humble background. All students greatly benefited from my teachings and
learned a great deal of mathematical knowledge outside of their textbooks.
Teaching Assistant - Linear Algebra
Sept 2021 - Apr 2022
Department of Mathematics, LUMS
Lahore, Punjab, Pakistan
• Main tasks included holding weekly tutorials and office hours to help students develop a thorough understanding
of the concepts, and helping the instructor in marking assignments and quizzes. I have worked with two different
instructors over the course of two semesters.
UNDERGRADUATE PROJECTS
Senior Year Research Project: Representation Theory in High Energy Physics
Sept 2021 - May 2022
The dissertation attempted to highlight some important symmetrical phenomenon in physics by treating them as
applications to mathematical theories.
Representation Theory has been used extensively by physicists to study
particle physics under a mathematical lens.
SKILLS
Python, C++, MATLAB, R, Latex, Excel
LEADERSHIP AND MANAGEMENT
Peer Advisor – SSE Peer Support System, Office of Academic Advising - LUMS
Sep 2021 – Apr 2022
Assisted newly admitted students in smoothly transitioning to university life. Conducted regular meetings to monitor
students’ academic performance and mental health.
Director Media and Promotions, LUMS Students Mathematics Society (LSMS)
July 2019 – May 2020
Initially worked as a team member in Creativity and Promotions, designed and decorated auditoriums for various
events, and promoted society events on social media.
Hosted the opening ceremony of SIGMA, a mathematics
Olympiad held on an international level in my University. Due to satisfactory performance, was promoted to the
position of Director Media and Promotions, leading the department for a year and ensuring the success of society
events through strategic social media marketing.
VOLUNTEERING
Team Member – Ethical Training Program (ETP), LUMS Religious Society (LRS)
Sep 2018 – March
2020
Visited rural schools in Lahore to educate children about different important topics, such as preserving nature, being
kind to animals, and maintaining an active lifestyle etc. Received recognition from the society for my contribution
for two consecutive years.
English Teacher – Ambassador for Change Program, Centre for Business and Society (CBS) - LUMS
Jan 2020 – March 2020
Taught English to students from The Citizen Foundation (TCF) schools, focusing on English comprehension and
writing skills to prepare them for university admission tests. The students reported a significant improvement in
their reading and writing skills.
Team Member – Events and Projects, Developing Youth Aspirations (DYA)
Sep 2019 – Feb 2020
Conducted sessions for primary-level students in rural areas about the importance of environmental preservation.
Completed two sessions with team members, inspiring students to actively protect their environment.