EDUCATION AND TRAINING
Bachelor's in International Relations 
University of Peshawar [ 8 Sep 2020 – 6 Sep 2024 ] 
City: Peshawar |  Country: Pakistan |  Website: http://www.uop.edu.pk/ |  
Field(s) of study: International Relations |  Thesis: PAK-U.S. RELATIONS IN THE POST-U.S. WITHDRAWAL FROM
AFGHANISTAN: NEW AVENUES FOR COOPERATION 
CERTIFICATIONS 
[ Forman Christian College, Lahore, 21 Aug 2025 ] 
Research Methodology Course Obtained a Research Methodology Course Certificate from Center for Learning and
Teaching (CLT) Forman Christian collage, Lahore. 
Mode of learning: Online 
[ Amnesty International, 31 Aug 2024 ] 
Climate Change and Human Rights 
Mode of learning: Online 
[ International Institute for Regional and International Studies , 9 Sep 2025 ] 
Crash Workshop on Research Methodology and Article Writing 
Mode of learning: Hybrid 
WORK EXPERIENCE
 Mirror of Society – Peshawar, Pakistan 
City: Peshawar |  Country: Pakistan |  Website: https://mos.org.pk/ 
Coordinator 
[ 13 Sep 2022 – 13 Sep 2023 ] 
• Coordinated numerous events and activities for Social awareness and community development.
• Helped in reviewing Research articles and papers on Pertinent Social, Political and economic issues.
• Initiated Programs under the auspices of MOS such as education for street Childs.
• Organized Seminar, Debates, and fostered dialogue on different Social, Political and Economic issues.
• Worked for the promotion of the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals through community
engagement.
 Grand Peace Fair 2024, Organized by Department of International Relations, University of Peshawar. –
Peshawar, Pakistan 
City: Peshawar |  Country: Pakistan 
Organizer 
[ 30 Jan 2024 – 31 Jan 2024 ] 
• Organized the Grand Peace Fair 2023 as well as 2024 With the support of Department of International Relation
• The aim of this Program was to foster interfaith harmony, Tolerance and Peace in the Society.
• The Program included the participation of different Cultural oriented people as well as adherent of different
religions in numerous activities such as Cultural exhibitions through stalls and stage performances to
Ibrahim Faiz Khan 
Nationality: Pakistani  Date of birth: 25 Dec 2002  
 
 
Phone number: (+92) 03161581641 

Email address: ibrahimkhann9854@gmail.com 

Home: Mohallah Muhammadzai Rajjar Tehsil and District Charsadda, 24480 Peshawar (Pakistan) 

Other language(s): 
English 
LISTENING C2  READING C2  WRITING C2  
SPOKEN PRODUCTION C2  SPOKEN INTERACTION C2  
Urdu 
LISTENING C2  READING C2  WRITING C2  
SPOKEN PRODUCTION C2  SPOKEN INTERACTION C2  
Seminars on different topic for awareness. The main purpose was to foster Peace, Tolerance and Interfaith
harmony.
 Social Work Programme, University of Peshawar. – Peshawar, Pakistan 
City: Peshawar |  Country: Pakistan 
Participant 
[ 19 Sep 2020 – 19 Sep 2024 ] 
• Participated in Community Service Program University of Peshawar.
• Under the Community Service Program Participated in different Voluntarily activities designed for the
Community service.
• These Events Include Clean and Green initiative, Creating awareness through Community engagement about
Pertinent issues from Climate change to Social issues.
 The Mosaic Newsletter and Journal, Department of International Relations, University of Peshawar – P
eshawar, Pakistan 
City: Peshawar |  Country: Pakistan |  Email address: editormosaic@uop.edu.pk 
Author 
[ 2022 – 2023 ] 
Global Currency Shifts: De-dollarization and its Ramifications for the U.S.
 The Consortium for Asia-Pacific and Eurasian Studies (CAPES) – Islamabad, Pakistan 
City: Islamabad |  Country: Pakistan 
Internee 
[ 5 Nov 2025 – 31 Dec 2025 ] 
I have completed an internship in the Consortium of Asia-Pacific and Eurasian Studies (CAPES), which is a program
aimed at advancing the knowledge of students on the regional affairs and professional skill in the field of
International Relations. In my internship, I had a chance to work on research and policy analysis of the dynamics in
Asia-Pacific and Eurasian regions, participated in report writing, and helped organize academic events and
discussions. This experience taught me to have awareness of the experience of the global affairs, enhance my
analytical and research ability, and learn more about the cooperation and involvement in the regions.
 International Institute for Regional and International Studies (IIRIS) – Islamabad, Pakistan 
City: Islamabad |  Country: Pakistan 
Internee 
[ 1 Sep 2025 – 30 Nov 2025 ] 
I completed my internship at the International Institute for Regional and International Studies (IIRIS), a prominent
Islamabad-based think tank that focuses on proposing policy reforms and solutions to various national, regional, and
international issues. During my internship, I contributed a research article titled “Assessing Pakistan-Afghanistan
Relations: A Way Forward for Peace”, which explored prospects for stability and cooperation between the two
neighboring states. I also actively participated in seminars and debates on topics related to national and
international security, which enhanced my analytical understanding and broadened my perspective on
contemporary geopolitical and security challenges.
LANGUAGE SKILLS 
Mother tongue(s): Pashto 
Levels: A1 and A2: Basic user; B1 and B2: Independent user; C1 and C2: Proficient user
SKILLS 
Computer literacy(Microsoft Word,Excel,Office,Powerpoint,Outlook,Adobe Photoshop) /  Social Media / Social
Network /  Tech literacy 
HOBBIES AND INTERESTS 
Reading, Running, Social Networking