Saadia Faisal 
  
+92 300 8436671 
saadia.faisal@hotmail.com 
LinkedIn: Saadiafaisal 
 
As an adaptable and forward-thinking IB PYP educator and leader, I bring an open mind, reflective practice, and inquisitive spirit to nurturing the growth 
and development of young minds. My philosophy of education is rooted in cultivating curiosity, compassion, and critical thinking; empowering students 
and teachers alike to grow as responsible global citizens. I believe in fostering adaptive learning communities that embrace change with purpose, 
integrating sustainability and systems thinking into everyday practice to nurture awareness of interconnectedness and collective responsibility. 
Through innovative, research-driven approaches, I aim to create environments where inquiry leads to action, and where every learner is encouraged 
to think deeply, act ethically, and contribute to a more sustainable future. 
Experience 
PYP Coordinator/Head of International Section                                                                           08/2024 - 07/2025       
DBST: German Embassy School  
Tehran, Iran  
 
PYP Lead Teacher  
DBST: German Embassy School  
 
Spearheaded comprehensive curriculum reviews and policy reforms to ensure coherence, rigor, and excellence 
across the PYP. Championed collaboration through strategic planning meetings and targeted teacher coaching 
to enhance instructional practice. Initiated and led parent engagement in curriculum reflection cycles, fostering 
transparency and partnership. Drove programme innovation through research-based and sustainable teaching 
approaches, embedding continuous improvement and transformative learning across the school. 
 
Instructional Coach                                                                                                             (Service Learning) 
Adventures of PYP 
 
By implementing data-driven instructional strategies, fostering a collaborative learning culture, and 
providing ongoing coaching, I have empowered new teachers to enhance their instructional practices 
and increase learner achievement. By introducing systems thinking tools and sustainable habits of 
mind, I am commited to make teaching and learning sustainble in nature. 
 
PYP Educator                                                                                                                      08/2021 - 06/2023 
Invento International School; Tashkent, Uzbekistan  
 
Successfully implemented a Universal Design for Learning (UDL) framework that amplified students‘ 
voice, choice, and ownership, leading to enhanced engagement, social-emotional awarness and 
academic achievement. Passionately led professional development programmes to support teachers 
and parents in developing strategies to achieve our vision and mission for learning. Developed four-
dimensional units of inquiry (concepts, skills, attributes and understandings) to foster authentic 
learning. 
 
PYP Educator                                                                                                                       08/2015 - 06/2021 
Lahore Grammar School International; Lahore, Pakistan  
 
Successfully introduced inquiry-based teaching models that enhanced critical thinking, fostered 
interdisciplinary learning, and facilitated the transfer of knowledge across subjects and real-life 
contexts,  leading to improved student engagement and academic outcomes. 
 
Homeroom Teacher                                                                                                             12/2014 - 07/2015 
The City School, Paragon Campus; Lahore, Pakistan 
 
Effectively 
established activity-based 
learning 
through 
dynamic 
learning 
centres, 
significantly enhancing student engagement and attention, resulting in improved academic 
performance and deeper understanding of core concepts. 
 
Lead Teacher; Curriculum Specialist                                                                                  06/2013 - 11/2014 
KIPS Lahore, Pakistan 
                                                                                                 
Ardently designed and uncovered a need-based curriculum that bridged learning gaps while 
emphasising the human dimension of education, fostering holistic development and addressing the 
diverse needs of all students. 
Education 
Bachelor of Science: Home Economics  
June 2003 
College of Home Economics, Punjab University, 
Lahore Pakistan 
 
Master of Education: Advanced Teaching 
January 2023 
University of People,  
Pasadena, California, USA 
 
Teaching Certificate:  
January 2025 
Campus 51: CPD Standards Office UK 
 
 
 
 
 
Portfolio: 
https://padlet.com/saadiafaisal4u1/my-learning-
journey-spjrs9fe6s61u470 
 
 
 
 
 
 
My TPT store: 
https://www.teacherspayteachers.com/store/advent
ures-of-pyp 
 
 
 
ISN: My Article 
 
Compass Education: My Article 
 
 
 
• 
Avid seeker of transformative experiences that shape perspectives on life 
• 
Open to new ideas and readily adjusts methods based on constructive feedback 
• 
Believe in uplifting and empowering the community 
• 
Demonstrate persistence in pursuing learning goals 
• 
Persevere through challenges, setbacks, and difficulties 
• 
Exhibit curiosity as a learner, driven by a desire to explore and discover 
• 
Value community and collaboration in learning 
• 
Manage stress and setbacks effectively 
• 
Actively engage in reflective practices 
Professional Trainings 
Certificate in School Management and Leadership                                          09/2025 
Harvard School of Education 
 
Teaching and Learning for a Sustainable World;                        03/2024 
A Systems Thinking Approach 
Compass Education 
 
The Coach                                                                                                                     12/2023 
Eduro Learning 
 
Decoding Behaviour                                                                      08/2023 
Behaviour Revolution 
 
Making the PYP Happen-Implementing Agency  
International Baccalaureate 
 
 
 
 
09/2021 
 
 
 
 
Teaching English as Foreign Language (TEFL) 
 
 
03/2021 
 
Concept-Based Curriculum and Instruction 
Professional Learning International 
Lynn Ericson, Louis Lanning and Rachel French 
 
 
02/2020 
 
Learning Strategies 
Lahore Children’s Center By David Galante  
 
                    11/2019 
 
Essentials of inquiry 
Susan Powers 
 
 
 
 
 
08/2019 
 
Creative Writing - Skill Development 
April Smith 
 
 
 
 
 
08/2019 
 
Applying approaches to special educational needs 
British Council 
 
 
 
 
 
06/2019 
 
Understanding Language 
University of Southampton 
 
 
 
 
07/2018 
 
Teaching for success:  
The classroom and the world, Learning and learners,  
Lessons and teaching, Differentiation for learning in STEM teaching 
British Council 
 
 
 
 
 
01/2018 
 
Assessment in PYP 
International Baccalaureate 
 
 
 
 
11/2016 
 
Making the PYP Happen 
 
 
 
International Baccalaureate 
 
 
 
 
10/2016 
 
Assessment for Learning in STEM Teaching 
British Council 
 
 
 
 
 
02/2016 
 
International Montessori & Elementary Teachers Training & Diploma 
Pakistan Montessori Council 
 
 
 
                  03/2013 
 
Phonetics Workshop 
Oxford University Press 
 
 
 
 
04/2013 
 
Skills & Expertise 
• 
Design and deliver concept-based curriculum and 
instruction using 
a 
research-based 
structure 
of 
knowledge and process. 
• 
Establish inquiry-based, student-centered teaching by co-
constructing the learning with learners and teachers. 
• 
Develop school evaluation plans and monitor progress by 
taking the learning community on board. 
• 
Develop 
cross-curricular 
connections 
by identifying 
connections within and beyond the curriculum. 
• 
Integrate technology into learning to equip learners with 
the most engaging and effective modes of learning and 
communication. 
• 
Create a positive learning culture by focusing on rapport, 
pedagogical 
care, 
psychological 
safety, 
group 
cohesiveness, effective communication and democratic 
participation. 
• 
Conduct counselling sessions with parents and students 
to support the learning process and build a strong 
community, trust, and long-lasting relationships. 
• 
Develop and maintain a diverse and inclusive classroom 
environment by 
establishing 
responsive 
classroom 
practices and integrating UDL (Universal Design 
Learning). 
• 
Cultivate and polish essential learning habits in 
students through personalised coaching and intentional 
interventions, 
promoting 
self-directed 
learning, 
resilience, and a lifelong passion for acquiring knowledge. 
• 
Learn actively and passionately to acquire new skills that 
enhance productivity by developing PLC and PLN. 
• 
Think creatively and reflect on performance by receiving 
feedback and developing my growth plans. 
• 
Practice and encourage emotional intelligence through 
mindful and ethical decision-making. 
• 
Lead teams and conduct coaching conversations by 
developing a safe environment and building trust-based 
relationships. 
• 
Monitor and evaluate the impact of coaching by 
collecting various types of data and using authentic 
assessment tools. 
• 
Engage the learning community in growth and 
development programs by designing and conducting 
workshops and open-house programs.