Syeda Siddiqa Fatima
House No 731, Street # 102
Sector G-9/4, Islamabad
Mobile: 03316622205
E-mail: sfjilani89@gmail.com
Profile
I am a hard-working, confident and highly motivated individual
seeking employment. I believe that I possess the technical
knowledge, expertise and experience required. Professionally, I am
technically proficient, adaptable, and able to work independently
and as part of a team.
Education
M.S Bioinformatics 2019-2021
COMSATS University Islamabad, Islamabad Campus
CGPA: 3.53/4.0
B.Ed (1.5 years) 2019-2021
Allama Iqbal Open University, Islamabad
B.S Bioinformatics 2014-2018
COMSATS University Islamabad, Islamabad Campus
CGPA: 3.28/4.0
Experience
Trainer Science (Secondary) at Development in Literacy, Islamabad
September 2025 – Present
I am working as a Trainer Science Secondary at DIL where I am
responsible for supporting teachers to embed evidence-based
literacy practices within secondary science. Deliver high-quality
training focused on scientific vocabulary, reading strategies,
disciplinary writing, and improving students’ ability to
communicate scientific ideas. Provide coaching, monitor teacher
performance, conduct classroom observations and provide them
need based support.
Academic Coordinator at Allied School, Islamabad December 2024
– August 2025
I am working as an Academic coordinator in Allied school
Islamabad where I am teaching Biology, Computer science and
Chemistry to class 9th and 10th along with managing the teaching
staff of 25 people, dealing with parents and working in
administration.
Teaching Fellow at Teach for Pakistan, Islamabad June 2022 – June
2024
I worked as a Teaching fellow in I.M.S.G (I-VIII) Bhimber Trar
Islamabad where I was teaching Computer science, History and
Geography to class 6th, 7th and 8th. In the final year of my
fellowship I did a community partnership project in which I created
a science lab and did training of staff. I installed cupboard and table
in the room of science lab and performed hand-on activities with
students to enhance science learning and conducted a science fair. I
also conducted some activities relevant to climate awareness with
my students. I did summer school project in first year of fellowship
in which I gave my students digital literacy classes, English
Composition and Comprehension classes and vocabulary classes and
also trained the teachers regarding digital skills.
Senior Teacher at The Educators Capital Campus, Islamabad April
2021 – Dec 2021
I worked as a senior teacher in The Educators, Capital College
Islamabad where I am teaching biology to class 10th, 1st year, and
2nd year. I also have an experience of online teaching and I teach
using the PowerPoint slides.
Visiting Lecturer at I.M.C.G, F-8/1, Islamabad August2021 – May
2022
I worked as a teacher in I.M.C.G, F-8/1 Islamabad where I am
teaching chemistry and General Science to class 9th and 10th. I also
have an experience of online teaching and I teach using the
PowerPoint slides.
Content Writer and UI Designer at Jaamiah.com, Islamabad April
2019 – Feb 2021
I have worked as a content writer in an Ed-Tech Company, where I
have been involved in writing content related to the educational
institutions of Pakistan. I also held a position of a Team Lead for
Content team and had been a UI Designer in which I designed the
websites of the Institutions. I also have been involved in doing the
SEO of Institutes. I had an experience of working in team as well as
a single person.
Projects
Evaluation of siRNA in rice genome using computational methods
2018
I evaluated siRNA in the rice genome by using computational
methods.
Comparative Study of Cardiovascular and Peripheral Vascular
Diseases using Bioinformatics Techniques 2020
I did the comparative transcriptome analysis to find common
differently expressed genes, biological pathways and networks with
the help of different Bioinformatics techniques.
Skills
Word press (Advanced Gutenberg), MS Excel, PowerPoint, Word, C,
C++, Python Programming, Linux Operating System, HTML, CSS,
PHP, SEO