SAFDAR ULLAH  
Islamabad  
+923338587997  
safdarullah98@gmail.com 
 CAREER SUMMARY 
Proactive Administration and Operations professional with 6+ years of experience in leading office and 
facility operations, vendor management, procurement and budget oversight. Skilled in streamlining 
administrative processes, implementing self-sustaining systems, controlling costs and driving 
operational excellence while ensuring compliance and employee satisfaction. 
 SKILSS 
• 
Office & Facility Administration 
• 
Vendor & Procurement Management 
• 
Budget & Petty Cash planning and oversight 
• 
Event Planning & Coordination 
• 
Compliance (Income Tax & VAT) 
• 
Microsoft Office (Excel, Word) 
 EXPERIENCE 
Deputy Manager -Admin | NIETE 
February 2024 – Current 
• Establishment of Key Facilities: Played a key role in setting up NIETE’s Office, in-house Media 
Production Studio, and office Daycare Facility by coordinating procurement, vendor evaluation and 
operational arrangements for projects valued at ₨. 74 million collectively, delivering well equipped, 
functional, modern and safe workspaces. 
• Vendor & Procurement: Lead strategic vendor engagement, conduct market analyses, negotiate 
rates, maintain alternative supplier pipelines, and benchmark vendor pricing regularly to ensure 
competitive costs, uninterrupted operations and strong, reliable supplier relationships. 
• Facility Operations: Lead daily office and studio operations, overseeing maintenance, 
housekeeping, and security, while implementing structured employee feedback systems to 
proactively address issues and maintain a safe, efficient, and well-organized workplace. 
• Meals & Refreshments Oversight: Managing employee meals and refreshments, supervising 
vendors, ensuring menu variety and quality and collecting feedback to continuously improve hygiene, 
service and employee satisfaction. 
• Daycare Facility Management: Supervise and guide daycare operations, ensuring a safe, engaging, 
and well-equipped environment for employees’ children; oversee procurement of materials, staff 
coordination, and resolution of operational issues. 
• Events & Stakeholder Engagement: Lead planning and execution of internal and external events, 
including employee town halls, team-building activities, workshops, and visits by Ministry of 
Education officials and donors, overseeing logistics, coordination and hospitality. 
• Budget & Cost Oversight: Track and review all operational expenses across facilities, meals, travel, 
procurement, and daycare; ensure compliance with organizational policies, monitor budgets, and 
identify cost efficiency opportunities without compromising quality. 
SAFDAR ULLAH  
 
2 
• Data & Documentation: Maintain comprehensive administrative and operational data systems on 
Google Drive, including fixed asset registers, shared folders, and digital trackers for expenses and 
task planning ensuring organized documentation and real-time visibility. 
• Team Leadership & Operations Oversight: Lead a team of seven admin and security staff, 
implementing self-sustaining systems, allocating responsibilities, and ensuring operational backups 
to maintain seamless administrative and operational functions even in my absence. 
• Logistics & Fleet Support: Support logistics operations as required, assisting with fleet management 
and resolving issues with third-party providers to ensure safe and efficient transport for field teams. 
• Audit & Compliance: Provide critical support during Ministry of Education audits and External 
Financial audits by supplying documentation, operational information, and responses related to 
administrative and operational functions. 
 
Admin Supervisor| Genome Labs (GCMD) 
July 2018 – February 2024 
• 
Oversaw daily office administration, including maintenance, security, inventory, and petty cash 
management. 
• 
Coordinated with vendors for procurement and service delivery, ensuring timely supplies and cost 
efficiency. 
• 
Maintained accurate records of office assets, stationery, and consumables. 
• 
Assisted in organizing internal meetings and team activities to support smooth office operations. 
 EDUCATION 
Bachelor of Arts (B.A.) | Allam Iqbal Open University 
In progress 
 
Faculty of Science (F. Sc.) | Superior Science School and College 
December 2017 
 
 LANGUAGES 
• 
English 
• 
Urdu 
• 
Pashto