Samreen Niazi                                                                        
samreen.niazi2681@gmail.com 
 
Instructional Design & Academic Management Leader 
Highly accomplished professional with over 10 years of progressive experience driving 
educational excellence through teacher coaching, professional development, and curriculum 
leadership (O level, A Level, and undergraduate). Expert in change management and the 
strategic development of high-performing teams, having served as a Head Academic Coach, ( 
Primary and Elementary level) . Possesses a rigorous analytical foundation from an M.Phil. in 
Environmental Economics, enabling the effective translation of complex concepts into clear, 
actionable training modules. Committed to raising faculty standards, fostering organizational 
effectiveness, and managing comprehensive academic programs. 
 
Educational Milestones 
 
’āś 2013 ŌĆō 2016 M. Phil: Environmental Economics (C.G.P.A:3.82) 
Pakistan Institute of Development Economics - Islamabad 
’āś 2002-01 - 2005-08 Master of Science: Economics (C.G.P.A: 3.77) 
Fatimah Jinnah Women University ŌĆō Rawalpindi 
 
 
Thesis / Essential Courses / Research articles taken up at university 
’āś M. Phil Research Thesis on ŌĆ£Economic and Environmental Viability of Solar Powered 
Irrigation System: A case study of Fatah JangŌĆØ. 
 
’āś M Sc. Research thesis on ŌĆ£Employment and Labor Productivity in Large ŌĆōScale 
Manufacturing Sector of Pakistan: A Simultaneous Equation ModelŌĆØ. 
 
Research essays on various topics related to Environment and Natural Resource such as: 
 
1. Environmental Sustainability of Household Consumption: Understanding Ecological foot print 
of Economies 
2. Valuation of Sundarbans 
3. Solid Waste Management 
4. Capitalism as an Alternative Strategy to Development  
5. Conducted Research and report on ŌĆ£Criminal WomenŌĆØ based on live interviews of Women in 
Adiala Jail. 
 6. Numerous critical reviews on articles related to ŌĆ£Climate ChangeŌĆØ, including COP 20. 
Major courses taken  
 
’āś Micro and Macro Economics 
’āś Economics of Environment and Natural Resources 
’āś Sustainable laws-National and International 
’āś Agriculture Economics and Environment 
’āś Sustainable development and Economic policy 
’āś Measurement and Valuation in Environmental Economics 
’āś Economics of Climate change 
 
 
Work experience  
 
’āś (August 2016-January 2017)  
                 Visiting Lecturer; Environmental Economics & Macro Economics   
    
    Fatimah Jinnah Women University, Rawalpindi, Punjab 
                Job Specifications:   
’éĘ Used variety of learning modalities and support materials to facilitate learning process 
and accentuate presentations.  
’éĘ Evaluated and revised lesson plans and course content to achieve student-centered 
learning.  
’éĘ Inspired discussions through presentation of thought-provoking material, preparing 
students for rigors of Environmental Economics field. 
 
’āś (September 2017-May 2018)  
  Visiting Lecturer; Environmental Economics     
              Islamic International University Islamabad, Islamabad 
 
                  Job Specifications:  
’éĘ Arranged syllabus, developed schedule, and determined reading list for the above 
mentioned course, giving students appropriate time to complete assignments and 
absorb information. 
’éĘ Employed advanced knowledge of Environmental and Climate Change Economics to 
teach challenging high-level courses to graduate students. 
’éĘ Arranged a well-organized study trip to Khewra, salt mines in accordance to the 
learning objectives of Natural Resource Economics, along with an Environmental 
Scientist on board for elaboration. 
 
’āś (July 2018-May 2022)  
1)  O- level Teacher & Coach; Urdu & Economics 
Edopia, Islamabad, Federal State 
                  
    
    Job Specifications: 
’éĘ Preparing the school curriculum from pre- school to O levels for Urdu, which 
included Cambridge aligned learning objectives and updated syllabus.  
’éĘ  Training and facilitating Urdu teachers in: Lesson Planning, Clarity planners, Syllabus 
design with coherent inculcation of latest Making Learning visible techniques (MLVs) 
in their current teaching methodologies.  
’éĘ  Used coordination and planning skills to achieve results according to schedule.  
’éĘ Proved successful working within tight deadlines and fast-paced atmosphere.  
’éĘ  Continuously upgraded Urdu syllabus using text books, audio visual aids, 
biographies, magazines and documentaries.  
’éĘ  Successfully cultivating love for Urdu language through personal touch.  
’éĘ Teaching literature with passion, MLV techniques and thorough communication. 
      
      
’āś (July 2022-May 2023)   & (July 2024- November 2025)  
Senior Academic Coach & Social Emotional Learning Educator (SEL) 
Government Higher Secondary School, Latifal (Chakwal) 
 
Job specifications: 
’éĘ Training middle-school and junior high school language teachers (English, Urdu, 
Islamiat, Social studies) with upgraded Cambridge based and Single National 
Curriculum SNC skills and contemporary pedagogical techniques.  
’éĘ Conducting weekly one on one coaching sessions with all mentees (Lower Kinder 
till 8th grade).  
’éĘ Mentoring teachers on building a healthy, open and discussion based 
environment in their classes.  
’éĘ Directly modelling the old, new teaching techniques and Making Learning Visible 
(MLV) in classrooms. 
’éĘ Mentor ship; team lead with extensive collaboration; deep planning and detailed 
feedback, creating Coherence and maintaining quality within syllabus across the 
grades.  
’éĘ Taking regular language class observations (lower kinder till 8th) to observe and 
improve the teaching pedagogies for excellence in learning. 
’éĘ Scheduling Audio and Video lectures with mentees and students to expand the 
learning horizon.  
’éĘ Maintaining harmony in junior school, through counseling and conflict 
resolution.  
’éĘ Consistently creating, exploring updated language resources for teachers and 
students to keep nurturing their curious minds. 
 
 
 
’éĘ As an SEL coach 
’éĘ Conducting regular SEL sessions with each grade (9th ŌĆō 2nd year) every week to 
develop co-curricular soft skills, highly valuable in 21st century.  
 
’éĘ Providing simple, day to day case studies and documentaries to introduce, 
explain and develop understanding of Social Emotional Skills.  
 
’éĘ Major skills taught : Self-awareness--- Self ManagementŌĆöStress 
ManagementŌĆö  Communal relations---- Communication  
                      
’éĘ Successfully carried out six projects based on Communal Empowering, 
Entrepreneurship with external faculty, using real life stories from the village of 
Latifal.  
 
   
’āś        (August 2023-May 2024) 
                      Middle year English language Instructor, 
                      Elite International School, Islamabad.  
 
              Job specifications:  
’éĘ Maintaining a deep learning environment for meaningful discussions. 
’éĘ Completing given curricula with targeted skillsets designed for the students. 
’éĘ Counseling studentsŌĆÖ and parents about their childŌĆÖs mental and academic needs. 
’éĘ Facilitating studentsŌĆÖ with extra resources and one on one sessions. 
’éĘ Preparing students to reenact musical stage show.  
’éĘ Exploring any extra language resources needed to expand on topics being taught.  
 
’āś (September 2023- August 2024)  
              Official IB tutor for Urdu Language (taught as a Foreign Language) 
IB Education system, Denmark (carried out remotely) 
 
Job Specifications: 
’éĘ Constructing a time- line as per the requirement of the IB lines of inquiry. 
’éĘ Structuring a detailed study portfolio from the Urdu library of classics provided. 
’éĘ Making bi ŌĆōlingual (English & Urdu) audio lectures according to the needs and 
requirements of global themes. 
’éĘ Explanation of classic Urdu literature under the  provided frame work of areas of 
inquiry 
     
’āś (July 2025- till date) 
  
2) O levels Instructor- IGCSE Economics. Edopia, Islamabad 
 
 
 
SKILL SET 
’éĘ Deep research, analytical and assimilation capacity. 
’éĘ Exceptionally thorough in Communication and Teaching. 
’éĘ Ability to thoroughly analyze socio-economic scenarios and review them critically. 
’éĘ Data analysis and interpretation ( using statistical software packages as per need) 
’éĘ Adaptable to new learning areas and domains. 
’éĘ  Possess the potential to learn new soft wares, techniques and pedagogies.  
’éĘ Easy to work with & can conveniently participate in group projects. 
’éĘ Excellent & Comprehensive writing ability (English as well as Urdu). 
’éĘ Urdu ( poetry & prose ) 
’éĘ English ( poetry & prose) 
 
 
Technical Command 
’éĘ Capable of using teaching aids such as Google classrooms, Zoom, Prezi etc. 
’éĘ Familiar with the use of SPSS and E-Views  
’éĘ Utilized Ret Screen (Renewable Energy Technology) Software. Windows 7, MS. Office 
(Word, PowerPoint, Excel) 
’éĘ Hold capacity to learn new software as per need and use 
 
More about Samreen 
 
I am an avid reader of English and Urdu literature. This has built my in depth, analytical approach 
in both areas. This passion has led me to read and write immensely, with critical understanding 
of using it to teach our national language Urdu, with the same passion that I hold. Dr. Muhammad 
Allama Iqbal and Faiz Ahmed Faiz are my inspiration to read and write. In parallel, I possess keen 
interest in understanding subjects related to communication, development, social issues and 
human behavior.  
 
REFERENCES 
’éĘ Dr. Aneel Salman: Chair, Economic Security, IPRI 
’éĘ Contact number: 0333-4479986 
 
’éĘ Mam Samreen Fawaz: Principal, Edopia 
’éĘ Contact Number :  0323-2983998 
 
’éĘ Mam Jaweria Sethi: Head of School, Edopia 
 
’éĘ Miss Hajra Haroon : British Council, Islamabad 
Contact Number: 0333-5142244