IQRA ATTAULLAH MEMON 
Sukkur, Pakistan 
iqraqemon.mphils24@iba-suk.edu.pk | iqra-attaullah-059780346/ | +923478998565 
PROFESSIONAL SUMMARY 
 
 
Education and research professional with 7+ years of experience in mathematics teaching and teacher 
development. Skilled in curriculum and assessment design, action and qualitative research, and facilitating 
professional learning communities. Experienced in mentoring teachers, coordinating academic initiatives, and 
promoting evidence-based, reflective practices. Passionate about inclusive pedagogy, teacher leadership, and 
improving educational outcomes through collaborative approaches. 
 
EDUCATION 
 
Sukkur IBA University 
Jan 2024 - Currently enrolled 
Mphil Education 
 
Sukkur IBA University 
Aug 2020 - Dec 2022 
Bachelor’s in education 
 
Shah Abdul Latif University  
Oct 2016 -Feb 2019 
B.Sc (Engineering) 
 
CORE COMPETENCIES AND SKILLS 
● Leadership & Capacity 
Building 
● Teacher Professional 
Learning & 
Development 
● Academic 
Coordination & Team 
Collaboration 
● Assessment Design, 
Review & Quality 
Assurance 
● Monitoring, Evaluation & 
Reporting (MER) 
● Curriculum Design & 
Instructional Innovation 
● Research and Policy 
Analysis 
● Data-Driven Presentation 
● Institutional Engagement 
& Partnerships 
PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE 
 
 
IBA Public School Sukkur - EST (Mathematics)  
 
 August 2024- Present 
 
Deliver mathematics instruction using student-centered and inclusive pedagogies aligned with curriculum 
standards. 
 
Contribute to teacher professional learning and development in mathematics through collaborative 
planning, peer support, and reflective practice. 
 
Design, review and provide feedback on mathematics assessments to ensure alignment with learning 
objectives, rigor, and fairness 
 
Queen Mary School Sukkur - Academic Coordinator  
  
March 2023- March 2024 
 
Lead academic planning by monitoring student learning outcomes and supporting teachers through 
feedback, coordination, and instructional guidance. 
 
Coordinate curriculum implementation, teaching strategies, and performance management to enhance 
instructional quality. 
 
Plan and supervise curricular and co-curricular programs to promote holistic student development. 
 
 
 
Queen Mary School Sukkur – Maths Teacher and ICT Coordinator  
  
Oct 2016- Sept 2020 
 
Planned and delivered mathematics instruction while designing curriculum-aligned assessments to 
enhance student learning outcomes. 
 
Coordinated ICT integration by supporting teachers in the effective use of digital tools for instruction and 
assessment. 
 
RESEARCH PROJECTS 
 
The Role of Observation and Observer in Collaborative Pedagogic Reflection in Lesson Study  
  Embedded Action research within Teaching Practice  |  Feb 2025- May 2025 
 
 
Designed and conducted an action research study examining how observation practices and observer roles 
support collaborative pedagogic reflection and instructional improvement within the Lesson Study model. 
 
Impact of Mentoring Partnership on Self-care and Well-being of Social Justice Leaders 
A Correlational Study of HEI in Pakistan |  Jan 2025- May 2025 
 
 
Conducted a correlational study examining the relationship between mentoring partnerships and self-care and 
well-being among social justice leaders in higher education institutions in Pakistan. 
 
Exploring ECE Teachers’ Perceptions of Gender Equity in Classroom Practices   
Funded by Saida Waheed Gender Initiative (SWGI) | April 2025  
 
Conducted a qualitative SWGI-funded study exploring ECE teachers’ perceptions and 
practices of gender equity, using interviews and observations to build a classroom equity 
framework. 
 
The Role of Teacher Leadership in Initiating Professional Learning Communities in Public Sector 
Schools 
Qualitative Research |  Mar 2024- May 2024 
 
 
Designed and conducted a qualitative research study exploring how teacher leadership practices support the 
initiation of Professional Learning Communities in public sector schools. 
 
Perception of Teacher Educators about the Use of Artificial Intelligence in E-assessment: A Case Study 
of the Universities of North Sindh, Pakistan 
Qualitative Case Study |  Sept 2024- Nov 2024 
 
 
Explored teacher educators’ perceptions of the use of artificial intelligence in e-assessment practices in 
universities, with a focus on raising awareness about unethical AI use and promoting academic integrity. 
 
AWARDS AND RECOGNITION 
 
● Best Research Presentation, 4th International Conference on Education (ICE 2025) 
● Commended for excellence in Academic Coordination at Queen Mary School, Sukkur, 2024 
● Ranked among Top 5 Teachers for outstanding teaching and instructional impact, 2019 
● Recognized as Best Teacher by former Chief Justice Chaudhary Iftikhar, 2018