MISHA ZAHID  
 
LinkedIn: https://www.linkedin.com/in/misha-z-969327268 
Email: mishazahid21@gmail.com 
 
EDUCATION 
 
 
National University of Sciences and Technology, Islamabad (NUST) –MS Economics- CGPA- 3.0/4.0  
2021- Present  
Relevant Courses: Advance Micro Economics| Advance Macro Economics | Trade Theory and Policy | Advance Econometrics | 
Health Economics | Public Sector Economics | International Finance | Advance Econometrics Techniques and Forecasting  
 
Quaid-i-Azam University, Islamabad (QAU) – B.S Economics 
2016 - 2020  
Relevant Courses: Micro Economics| Macro Economics | Statistics| Econometrics | International Economics| 
Development Economics  
| Economy of Pakistan | Financial Economics| Monetary Economics  
 
AWARDS AND HONORS  
 
• Received gold medal in matriculation for receiving A grade.    
• Received scholarship for intermediate. 
• Topped the course of Development Economics, Accounting and Calculus and earned distinction in a batch of 86 
students.  
 
PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE  
 
 
 
 
Quaid e Azam University Islamabad –Teacher Assistant 
May 2019 – September 2019 
• As a teacher assistant at Quaid e Azam University, I facilitated data collection distributing questionnaires, ensuring 
comprehensive information gathering.  
• I skillfully organized, transferred and cleaned the collected data in Excel worksheets for efficient analysis.  
• Contributed to research projects by conducting literature reviews and providing valuable insights, showcasing my 
strong organizational and analytical skills.  
 
     National University of Sciences and Technology (NUST)                                                                         
Social Entrepreneurship Boot camp Intern                                                                                                  July 2023 – August 2023 
• 
Program Description: Participated in an intensive program focused on developing innovative solutions to social issues 
through entrepreneurial principles. 
• 
Collaborated with a team to identify and analyze social problems, and develop sustainable business solutions. 
• 
Conducted market research to validate business ideas and understand target demographics. 
• 
Developed a comprehensive business plan, including financial projections and impact assessment strategies. 
• 
Presented a final project proposal to a panel. 
 
  LEADERSHIP AND VOLUNTEER EXPERIENCE  
 
  Quaid-i-Azam University Library Society –Finance Secretary 
2019 - 2020  
• Led a team of 35+ volunteers and members to organize 20+ book fairs that raised funds for the education of 
underprivileged kids in the remote areas around the campus.  
• Conducted library events, study circles, reading circles, book talks, writer’s workshops etc. that increased library 
memberships by almost 40%.  
• Jashen e Pakistan-Marketing Organizer: As the Marketing Organizer for Jashen e Pakistan, I meticulously maintained 
financial records, collaborated with diverse teams to ensure event success, and exercised timely and informed decision-
making throughout. 
 
  NUST Public Affairs Club 
2022 - 2023  
• Actively involved in club events and activities, promoting awareness and understanding of public administration 
principles. 
• Collaborated with fellow members to organize workshops, seminars, and panel discussions on various public 
administration and governance topics. 
• Engaged in group discussions and knowledge-sharing sessions to deepen understanding of current issues and 
policies in public administration. 
• Contributed to events that facilitated networking opportunities with professors and professionals in the public 
administration field. 
  
RESEARCH  
 
Thesis: Public Spending And Green Economic Growth In South Asian Countries: 
Mediating Role of Education and R&D 
 Current Status: In Progress  
Description: I have made progress in constructing the Green Economic Growth Index using Data Envelopment Analysis 
(DEA). I have identified the key inputs and outputs that represent green economic growth, Furthermore, I have 
successfully collected and normalized the necessary data, ensuring that it is appropriately prepared for DEA modeling. my 
next task is to select the appropriate DEA model and proceed with running the analysis to calculate the efficiency scores. 
 
 Thesis: Effect of financial instability on macroeconomic stability : A case study of developed and developing countries. 
 
SKILLS  
 
•Stata, SPSS, Ox Metrics, MS Excel, MS Word, MS PowerPoint, Quantitative and Qualitative research and analysis.