 
 
Huma Jehangir 
Research and Development Professional 
Sector B-7 Sina Khun Aliabad 
Hunza, Gilgit-Baltistan 
+92 349 9447787 
huma.jehangir@outlook.com 
SUMMARY 
I am a research and development professional with a background in Anthropology and 
Behavioral Sciences. I have 3 years of experience in qualitative research, public policy and 
project management, along with skills in story writing, documentation, and report writing. My 
areas of interest include social protection, education, public health, gender, and sustainable 
development. I thrive in teamwork and enjoy working with rural communities, particularly women, 
in challenging and dynamic environments. 
EXPERIENCE 
Oxford Policy Management (OPM), Islamabad - Consultant, Poverty and Social Protection 
September 2025 - February 2026 
Achievements: 
●​ Development of Provincial Action Plans and District Costed Action Plans for child labour 
eradication in Sindh and Balochistan. 
●​ Development of Costed Action Plan to eradicate child economic exploitation/ child labour 
in ICT. 
●​ Drafted high-quality reports, policy briefs and other documentation, ensuring clarity, 
coherence, and adherence to OPM’s editorial standards. 
●​ Literature reviews and desk-based research to inform project design and contextual 
understanding. 
●​ Synthesized research findings into actionable insights, recommendations and policy 
actions. 
●​ Provided support for research activities, including data collection and stakeholder 
engagement as required. 
Pakistan Youth Change Advocates (PYCA), Islamabad - Program Implementation Lead 
September 2023 - August 2025 
Achievements: 
●​ Spearheaded 
nationwide 
youth-led 
advocacy 
efforts 
under 
the 
GHAI-funded 
TRANSFORM Pakistan project, playing a pivotal role in securing landmark national trans 
fats regulations in Pakistan. 
●​ Led high-level stakeholder engagement, including active liaison with parliamentarians, 
parliamentary forums/caucuses and food authorities, to drive forward public health policy 
initiatives across federal and provincial bodies. 
 
 
●​ Designed and executed monthly workplan and media advocacy plans specific to public 
health advocacy, integrating campaign messaging across social and traditional media 
platforms, resulting in over 70 million public engagement and visibility over 2 years. 
●​ Mentored and guided over 60 youth leaders across Pakistan for successful 
implementation of youth projects in support of the TRANSFORM Pakistan campaign. 
●​ Prepared monthly, interim and final progress reports, presentations, and donor 
submissions. 
●​ Technical guidance to field teams, enhancing documentation protocols, activity tracking, 
and compliance through systematic backstopping and review. 
Rural Support Programmes Network (RSPN), Islamabad - Young Development 
Professional (BRACE Programme) 
April 2023 - August 2023 
Achievements: 
●​ Prepared data collection tools and conducting interviews of 42 beneficiaries across 
BRACE districts in Balochistan. 
●​ Coordinated with BRACE partner RSPs and beneficiaries for fieldwork activities in 
Balochistan. 
●​ Qualitative research to collect impact and success stories of beneficiaries for Insights 
series of Pishin and Washuk district to be published by BRACE RSPN. 
●​ Visited LSOs and documented 30 initiatives from Kech, Khuzdar and Pishin district for 
LSO Initiatives published by BRACE RSPN. 
●​ Assisted the BRACE Research Officer BRACE, RSPN in data collection and transcriptions 
for the Qualitative Research, Community Investment Fund (CIF) Assessment Study 2023. 
Aga Khan Rural Support Program (AKRSP), Gilgit - Qualitative Enumerator (Quality of 
Life, QoL Survey) 
June 2022 - July 2022 
Achievements: 
●​ Identification of key informants in central Hunza. 
●​ Conducted 15 in-depth interviews with key informants and local people in different areas 
of central Hunza. 
●​ Transcribed collected data from the in-depth interviews with key informants and local 
people. 
●​ Reporting on field activities and data on a daily basis. 
Aga Khan Rural Support Program (AKRSP), Hunza - Intern  
August 2020 - December 2020 
Achievements: 
●​ Conducted 6 COVID-19 awareness and response sessions for hospitality and tourism 
businesses in diﬀerent areas of central and upper Hunza. 
●​ Assisted in organizing and managing Mental Health Awareness sessions for young 
people and mothers in Aliabad Hunza. 
 
 
●​ Lead on collecting information and conducting screening tests, interviews for applicants 
under Youth Internship Program (YIP) 2020 in Upper Hunza. 
●​ Worked with teams of Foundation for Health (F4HE) Covid-19 Response 2020, and Water, 
Sanitation and Hygiene (Wash) Project-UNICEF on ﬁeld visitations and distribution of 
hygiene kits in Nagar Valley. 
●​ Field visitations and correspondence with Local Support Organizations (LSOs) and 
beneficiaries. 
●​ Reporting and documentation of project activities. 
Karakoram Area Development Organization (KADO), Hunza - Intern  
August 2018 - September 2018 
Achievements: 
●​ Monitored and evaluated tasks in Women Rehabilitation Centre (WRC) Karimabad, and 
Sharma Centre Hyderabad, Hunza. 
●​ Organized 2 dental hygiene workshops for workers in WRC and Sharma Center. 
●​ Reporting program activities. 
EDUCATION 
Quaid-i-Azam University, Islamabad - M.Phil Anthropology 
February 2021 - February 2023 
●​ Majors Anthropology 
●​ Thesis title: Social Forces Influencing Female Voting Behavior in Aliabad Hunza 
Karakoram International University, Gilgit - BS Behavioural Sciences 
March 2016 - July 2020 
●​ Majors Psychology, Anthropology, Sociology 
●​ Thesis title: Anthropological Reflections on Kinship and Disability: A Case Study of Aliabad 
Hunza 
●​ Gold Medalist in BS(Honors) Behavioral Sciences session 2016-2020 
VOLUNTEER WORK 
Local Education Board, Rawalpindi - Career Facilitator 
September 2023 - PRESENT 
Responsibilities: 
●​ Planning tasks and yearly plans for career facilitation sessions 
●​ Conducting career facilitation sessions 
●​ Providing relevant material to students of grade 8th to 12th  
Ismaili Volunteers (IVs), Islamabad- Member Ancillary Services 
April 2025 - PRESENT 
Responsibilities: 
 
 
●​ Community service 
 
Pakistan Girls Guide Association (PGGA), Hunza - Girls Guide 
March 2004 - January 2016 
Achievements: 
●​ Community service work 
●​ Cleanliness drives in Aliabad Hunza 
AWARDS 
●​ Merit scholarship for highest GPA throughout 4 years of undergrad 
●​ HEC Merit and Need Based Scholarship  
CERTIFICATES 
●​ Speaker during the 2024 Circular Economy Leadership and Education Conference and 
Excursion held at Hiroshima University, Japan (July 2024) 
●​ Self-Learning virtual course on the World Health Organization (WHO) REPLACE Trans 
Fat: An Action Package to Eliminate Industrially Produced Trans-Fatty Acids (January 
2024) 
●​ Lead speaker in the seminar TRANSFORM Pakistan - Youth Engagement for Regulating 
Trans Fatty Acids in Pakistan held at Quaid-i-Azam University, Islamabad (November 
2023) 
●​ HarvardX PH125.1x: Data Science: R Basics (2023) 
●​ Certificate of participation in Youth Leadership Conference held at Fairy Meadows, Gilgit 
Baltistan (July 2019) 
●​ Certificate of Business Model You One Day Workshop (December 2018) 
●​ Certificate of participation in 4th National Youth Summit (NYS), Muzaffarabad Kashmir 
(October 2018) 
●​ Certificate of participation in 3rd National Youth Summit (NYS), Gilgit (August 2018) 
●​ Certificate of organizing Youth Activism workshop at Karakoram international University 
(June 2017) 
 
