APP ID: 1902
NAME: Sidra Ishfaq
SCANNER SCORE: 9.1
LOCATION: Islamabad
================================================================================

SIDRA ISHFAQ +92 3368501112 sidraishfaq@gmail.com PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Ph.D. Economics          Pakistan Institute of Development Economics (PIDE), Islamabad  • Ph.D. Thesis on “Women’s Empowerment and its Impact on Household Food and Nutrition Security, and Vulnerability to Food Security in Rural Areas of Pakistan”. • Scholarship holder of International Research Support Initiative Program (IRSIP) from Higher Education Commission (HEC), Pakistan for six months’ research in Scotland, University of Edinburgh, UK. National Institute of Population Studies (NIPS) • Worked as “Quality Controller / Office Editor” at the National Institute of Population Studies (NIPS), Islamabad from 15 January 2017 to 30 June 2018. • Worked as “Office Editor” at the National Institute of Population Studies (NIPS), Islamabad from 06 July 2018 to 30 June 2020. • Worked as a “Researcher “at the National Institute of Population Studies (NIPS), Islamabad, from 1 July 2021 to 31 December 2022 in two different projects named “Longitudinal Panel Study-Performance Monitoring for Action Approach” funded by UNFPA and “Impact Assessment of Benazir Nashonuma Program (BNP) to improve maternal and child nutritional status” funded by Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation (BMGF). Health Services Academy (HSA) • Worked as a “Senior Research Officer” (PPS-08) under the PSDP Project “Need Assessment of Health Human Resource for Driving Innovation and Achieving SDGs 2030” at Health Services Academy (HSA), Islamabad. • Also served as an “Assistant Professor” at HSA and taught Population Dynamics Course to BSPH 3rd Semester. • Supervised MSPH students. The titles of the dissertations are: 1. Contraception choice among HIV-positive reproductive-age women on Antiretroviral therapy in Pakistan. 2. Migration Intentions among healthcare professionals and Their Potential Impact on Achieving Universal Health Coverage: a case Study from Islamabad, Pakistan. 3. Assessment of Tobacco Harm Reduction Among Students in Selected Universities of Sindh, A Comparative Analysis of Smokers and Non-Smokers.   
Conference Papers • Kouser, S., Ishfaq, S., and Abedullah. 2021 Unveiling Women Empowerment and its Determinants across Rural Areas of Pakistan. Research for Development Impact (RDI) Virtual Conference: Pathways through disruption, 1-2 July 2021, the University of Queensland, Australia • Ishfaq, S., Abedullah, Kouser, S., Jepson, R., and Nightingale, G. 2021. Impact of women’s empowerment on household food and nutrition security in rural Pakistan. Paper presented as oral presentation at 22nd Annual Population Research Conference organized by Population Association of Pakistan (PAP) and National University of Science and Technology, Islamabad • Ishfaq, S., Abedullah, Kouser, S. 2021. The Development and Determinants of Rural Women Empowerment Index in Pakistan. Paper presented in International Conference on Economic Transformation, Agriculture and Rural Development 2021 organized by Faculty of Economics and Management, IPB University • Ishfaq, S., Abedullah, Kouser, S., and Jepson, R. 2022. Impact of Women’s Empowerment on Household Vulnerability to Food Insecurity in Rural Economy of Pakistan. Paper presented at 2nd International Annual Conference “DEVELOPMENT: DISCOURSES AND CRITIQUES” organised by Centre for Business and Economic Research (CBER) and Institute of Business Administration Karachi (IBA) • Ishfaq, S., Abedullah, Kouser, S. 2022. Measurement and Determinants of Rural Women’s Empowerment in Pakistan. Paper presented in “One Day Symposium on The Great Transformation in Pakistan: Feminisation of Agriculture and its Implications for Food Security and Women’s Empowerment” Organized under the ACIAR Funded Research Project “Developing Competitive and Inclusive Value Chains of Pulses in Pakistan”  • Sheraz, A., Ishfaq, S., Zafar, R. 2023. Longitudinal Examination of Fertility Intentions and contraceptive Behaviors over a period of three years: A Performance Monitoring for Action (PMA) Approach. Paper presented in the Scientific Session “Universal Health Coverage and Social Protection” of the 13th International Public Health Conference 2023 “Shaping Healthcare through Evidence: Pioneering Solutions for Disease Prevention & Control” Organized by Health Services Academy (HSA) on 12th December 2023. • Ishfaq, S., Mahmood Ali, T. Sheraz, A. 2023. Bridging the Gap: Women's Empowerment as a Pathway to Reducing Out-of-Pocket Health Expenditures, Catastrophic Health Expenditures, and Impoverishment in Pakistan. Paper presented in the Scientific Session “Health Systems Strengthening through Innovations “of the 13th International Public Health Conference 2023 “Shaping Healthcare through Evidence: Pioneering Solutions for Disease Prevention & Control” Organized by Health Services Academy (HSA) on 12th December 2023. • Sheraz, A., Ishfaq, S., Zafar, R. 2023. Longitudinal Examination of Fertility Intentions and contraceptive Behaviors over a period of three years: A Performance Monitoring for Action (PMA) Approach. Paper presented in the 24th Annual Population Research Conference on the overarching theme “Healthy Families and Communities in a Changing Society - The Role of Family Planning”. The conference is organized in collaboration with Forman Christian College University (FCCU), Lahore, from 21-22 November 2023 at FCCU Campus, Lahore. 
• Ishfaq, S., Mahmood Ali, T. Sheraz, A. 2023. Bridging the Gap: Women's Empowerment as a Pathway to Reducing Out-of-Pocket Health Expenditures, Catastrophic Health Expenditures, and Impoverishment in Pakistan. Paper presented as a poster in the 24th Annual Population Research Conference on the overarching theme “Healthy Families and Communities in a Changing Society - The Role of Family Planning”. The conference is organized in collaboration with Forman Christian College University (FCCU), Lahore, from 21-22 November 2023 at FCCU Campus, Lahore. • Ishfaq, S., Mahmood Ali, T. Sheraz, A. 2023. Bridging the Gap: Women's Empowerment as a Pathway to Reducing Out-of-Pocket Health Expenditures, Catastrophic Health Expenditures, and Impoverishment in Pakistan. Paper accepted as a poster in the Session: P08 - Education, Employment, and Inequality at the Annual Meeting of Population Association of America 2024 from April 17th – 20th, 2024 in Columbus, Ohio, United States of America. • Ishfaq, S., Mahmood Ali, T. 2024. Bridging the Gap: Women's Empowerment as a Pathway to Reducing Out-of-Pocket Health Expenditures, Catastrophic Health Expenditures, and Impoverishment in Pakistan. Paper presented as an oral presentation at the Applied Development Economics Conference 2024 held at the Lahore School of Economics from 15th –17th August 2024. • Ishfaq, S., T. Sheraz, A. 2024. Bridging the Gap: Unveiling Women’s Empowerment in Utilization of WASH Services, Food Security and Water Poverty in Pakistan: Evidence from Spatial Analysis. Paper presented at the Technical Session: Women's Empowerment and Social Development in Pakistan at the 25th Annual Population Research Conference 2024, organized by the Population Association of Pakistan (PAP) in collaboration with the Institute of Business Administration Karachi (IBA) on 5 – 6th December 2024. Honours and Awards • 2021 RDI Conference Registration Grant – Unveiling Women Empowerment and its Determinants across Rural Areas of Pakistan. Research for Development Impact (RDI) Virtual Conference: Pathways through disruption, 1-2 July 2021, the University of Queensland, Australia • Awarded the prestigious HEC International Research Support Initiative Program (IRSIP) Scholarship and completed a six-month research visit at the University of Edinburgh as part of this fellowship. • Invited as a Distinguished Guest Speaker at the South Asia Gender Equity Research Meeting during the 30th International Population Conference (IPC 2025), University of Queensland, Australia (USD $5,000 honorarium) on July 12, 2025.  Publications • The Relationship Between Women’s Empowerment and Household Food and Nutrition Security: A Multi-Level Analysis. Journal: PLOS ONE. DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0275713. Published Online: 20 October, 2022 • Impact of women’s empowerment on household vulnerability to food insecurity in rural economy of Pakistan. Journal: Pakistan Journal of Agricultural Sciences DOI:10.21162/PAKJAS/22.25. Published online: 28 August 2022 
• Measurement and Determinants of Rural Women’s Empowerment in Pakistan. Journal: Global Social Welfare. DOI: 10.1007/s40609-023-00275-w. Published Online: 09 March 2023  • Patterns of Health Services Utilization During Pregnancy, Delivery, and Postpartum Period: Evidence from Pakistan Maternal Mortality Survey. Journal:  NUST Journal of Social Sciences and Humanities. Special Issue (November 30, 2022) pp. 49-62 • Two Decades of Renewable Energy ‘Talk’ in Australia. Journal: Sustainable Futures. DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.sftr.2025.100684. Published online: 21 May 2025 • The Impact of Health Expenditures on Economic Growth in Selected South East Asian Countries. Journal: Journal of Economic Sciences. DOI: 10.55603/jes.v4i1.a9 Published online: 30 June, 2025 • Women's Empowerment and its Association Between Health Expenditures and Impoverishment in Pakistan. Journal: SN Social Sciences (Under Review) • Longitudinal Examination of Fertility Intentions and contraceptive Behaviours over a period of three years: A Performance Monitoring for Action (PMA) Approach. Journal: Lahore Journal of Economics (Under Review) Other Experience • Experience in handling microdata and performing analysis in statistical packages like STATA and SPSS • Worked as a Research Assistant (RA) at PIDE and produced a report on “Understanding and Summarizing Indus River System Authority (IRSA), Under the supervision of the Chief of Economist at PIDE • Worked as a Research Assistant at IBA Karachi and did Quantitative and Qualitative Research on four rounds of HIES Data Set by using statistical Packages like STATA and SPSS and calculated Food Security Indicators • Did Quantitative and Qualitative Research on the IFPRI Data Set by using statistical Packages like STATA and SPSS and calculated the Women’s Empowerment Index called “Rural Women Composite Empowerment Index (RWCEI)” Food Security and Nutrition Security Indicators, and Vulnerability to Food Security Index • Estimated Socio-Economic Impacts of Climate Change on Current and Future Maize Production in District Sargodha, Pakistan • Experience in using the Trade-off Analysis Model for Multidimensional Impact Assessment (TOA-MD) to quantify the socio-economic indicators like net farm returns, per capita income, and poverty of hybrid maize growers • Did Research on the Impact of Special day markets in the twin cities of Islamabad and Rawalpindi • Did an Internship at PIDE (Pakistan Institute of Development Economics) Islamabad, Pakistan under the supervision of Dr. Usman Mustafa, Director, Economics of Conflict Security & Development Centre • Served British Council as Invigilator and Assistant Supervisor for ILETS, ACCA, IGCSE, and O/A Levels exams in Islamabad  
DIPLOMAS/SHORT COURSES • Four weeks of Internship at Ayub Agriculture Research Institute, Faisalabad • One-week Training Course on “Result Based Management” held at PIDE (Pakistan Institute of Development Economics) from April 9-14, 2012 in Islamabad • Workshop on “Urban Analytics” arranged by PIDE-RASTA on Saturday 4th June, 2022. Instructor: Dr. Murtaza Haider, Professor of Data Science & Real Estate Management, Toronto Metropolitan University, Toronto, Canada • Two weeks of training on “Python for Social Scientists” arranged by RASTA, PIDE from 31st Jan – 2nd Feb, and 13th – 15th Feb, 2023 TECHNICAL SKILLS • Microsoft Office Tools (MS-Word, Excel, Power point) • Excellent Experience in Office Management • GeoDa / ArcGIS • STATA / SPSS RESEARCH INTERESTS • Health systems utilisation and inequality, especially across lifecycle transitions • Economic vulnerability, catastrophic health expenditures, and household impoverishment • Intergenerational wellbeing, gender disparities, and social determinants of health • Climate and environmental stressors affecting health and socio-economic resilience, relevant to ageing populations in fragile contexts • Development Economics & Health Economics • Gender Studies ACADEMIC PROFILE  Degree Subject Year of Passing Division/CGPA Board/ University Ph.D. Economics 2023 3.80/4.00 Pakistan Institute of Development Economics (PIDE), Islamabad M.Sc. (Hons.) Agri. Economics 2014 3.90/4.00 University of Agriculture Faisalabad B.Sc. (Hons.) Agri. and Resource Economics 2012 3.78/4.00 University of Agriculture Faisalabad Intermediate  Pre-Medical 2008 A B.I.S.E, Faisalabad Matriculation Science 2006 A B.I.S.E, Faisalabad  
REFERENCES Dr. Prof. Ruth Jepson Professor in Public Health in Social Sciences/Director of Scottish Collaboration for Public Health Research and Policy (SCPHRP)/Director of Research University of Edinburgh, UK Email: ruth.jepson@ed.ac.uk  Tel: 0131-650-6651 Dr. Abedullah Chief of Research (Retired) Pakistan Institute of Development Economics (PIDE), Islamabad, Pakistan E-Mail:  abedullah@pide.org.pk  Tel: +923216698665 Dr. Aysha Sheraz Associate Professor,  Health Services Academy (HSA), Islamabad Pakistan E-Mail: ayshasheraz.nips@gmail.com  Tel: +92336-5033303 Dr. Aisha Irum Research Manager/Team Lead Knowledge Unit/Chairperson IRB Research and Development Solutions (RADS), Islamabad, Pakistan Email: aisha.irum@resdev.org  Tel:  +92 346 9194651 PERSONAL INFORMATION  Birth Date:  02-03-1989 Nationality:  Pakistani Gender:  Female